Events
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads
Vladimir Putin chaired the second meeting on the development of the Armed Forces.
May 16, 2018
15:00
Sochi
5 of 5
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads.
The participants focused on the fulfilment of the state defence order and the further re-equipment of the army and navy.
The meeting was attended by the Defence Ministry leadership, heads of several defence industry companies and members of the Government’s economic bloc.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We will continue our work. Today we will discuss the implementation of the state defence order. I also want you to report to me on the implementation of instructions that were issued following our previous meetings in May and November last year.
We will also discuss the development of the Navy, its current standing and its immediate and long-term goals.
The high combat readiness and effectiveness of our naval forces is a major factor of our military and economic security as well as strategic parity. Overall, it is a vital instrument for ensuring our national interests. Last but not least, it also includes flying our flag in the key regions of the world’s oceans.
Chief of the General Staff – First Deputy Defence Minister Valery Gerasimov before the meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads.
The scope of the Navy’s tasks has increased noticeably over the past few years. The area of its operation has also expanded, primarily in the Mediterranean, North Atlantic and the maritime area of the Asia-Pacific region.
I will especially note the efficient and coordinated actions of the crews of our ships and submarines during the military operation in Syria. The cruise missile attacks and the effective work of the carrier aviation dealt a serious blow to the terrorists, destroying important infrastructure facilities.
The accomplishment of these and other complicated and important tasks was largely possible due to the high combat and technical readiness of the Navy.
The build-up of the Navy’s combat potential and the practice of long-distance naval campaigns, exercises and manoeuvres should certainly continue.
This year’s plan includes 102 expeditions of ships and submarines. At the same time, with the continuing threat of attacks by international terrorists in Syria in the Mediterranean Sea, our ships armed with Kalibr cruise missiles will be on a constant military watch.
Rostec CEO Sergei Chemezov (left) and Acting Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu before the meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads.
It is necessary to strengthen the naval component of the Strategic Nuclear Forces – this will increase the role of the Navy in terms of nuclear deterrence.
The development of multipurpose naval groups to reliably ward off military threats from the sea remains an important task.
At the same time, special attention should be paid to coordinating the actions of such groups with the Aerospace Forces, and other arms and services of the Armed Forces.
We will certainly continue to equip the Navy with cutting-edge systems of weapons, communications, reconnaissance and targeting as part of the state armament programme.
As before, the requirements for quality and deadlines for fulfilling the state defence order should remain the most stringent.
There are certainly issues here, concerning both the development of new equipment and the repair of surface ships and submarines.
Let us hear what specific solutions are proposed here.
Let us get to work.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Defence Ministry senior officials
May 15, 2018
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 16, 2018, 15:00
Text version