Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a traditional meeting with Government members ahead of the New Year.
December 26, 2018
14:30
1 of 8
Vladimir Putin held a traditional meeting with Government members ahead of the New Year. With Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. Photo: RIA Novosti
The participants discussed the overall results of 2018, the country’s socioeconomic development and other current matters.
The report was delivered by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev, colleagues,
As per tradition, I would like to wish you a Happy New Year and to wish you every success. Naturally, I cannot omit to mention the current political agenda.
The Government was largely renewed following the Presidential election. Many new people who have made a name for themselves in the regions came to the Government.
There is something I would like to point out and thank you for. It is that the new Government members immediately joined in the efforts to attain our main goals for the next five years, that is, the implementation of the national projects.
The Presidential Executive Order issued in May 2018 has been implemented, or, rather, we have started working to translate it into practice.
We have specified the methods and the resources for attaining the goal of a nationwide breakthrough and our movement forward in such key areas as healthcare, education, science and innovative technology.
Of course, we talked about this more than once, yet I believe it would not hurt to say again that we must do our best to reach our goals and fulfil our tasks together with the regional teams.
I would like to thank Mr Medvedev for personally overseeing all these national projects and their implementation plans and for taking part in them, just as we had agreed.
I strongly hope that we will be able to jointly guarantee the high professional standard of this work and that all of us will work as an integral team. We must score essential results for the Russian people, results that they should feel in their lives, rather than in theory, as I have already noted more than once. The people must feel that their lives are changing for the better.
I would like to wish you a Happy New Year and every success.
In conclusion, I would like to congratulate you on another event.
As you know, I mentioned new types of Russian weapons, mostly hypersonic weapons, in my Address to the Federal Assembly.
The Avangard intercontinental hypersonic glide vehicle is one of them.
As per my instructions, a Defence Ministry enterprise prepared and conducted the final test of this system. This test has just proved to be an unqualified success.
All of the system’s specifications and its performance have been confirmed. I repeat, the test was a success. Starting in 2019, the Russian army will receive the new Avangard intercontinental strategic system.
The first Avangard regiment will be deployed as part of the Strategic Missile Forces.
This is a major event in the life of the Armed Forces and probably the entire country. Russia now has a new strategic weapons system.
Mr Medvedev, you have the floor, please.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
: Mr President, colleagues,
Indeed, such meetings ahead of the New Year are a good tradition that we greatly appreciate in the Government. The President always attends them to sum up the results.
Mr President, as you rightly said, we tried to start working right away – I am referring to the implementation of the Presidential Executive Order of May 7. It is very important to make sure that everyone is up to the mark. Naturally, it is also highly important that the President support the undertakings of the Government.
Thank you for your assessments. We understand how complicated this work is. Next year, literally in several days, the active implementation of all national projects will be launched.
Mr President, last week I discussed with you certain clarifications to national projects. The Government held a meeting of the Presidium of the Council for National Projects on Monday. I asked all regional governors to be in contact as you said.
We reviewed regional aspects of implementing national projects because it is obvious: all major national tasks should be resolved on the ground, that is, in the regions and municipalities, but the Government must ensure the coordination and control of the implementation of the ambitious objectives set forth in the Presidential Executive Order.
Naturally, we will continue working in this vein. I told my colleagues in the Government that next year we will be dealing with national projects not only from our offices and conference halls, but we will be also personally taking part in relevant events and checking on how major areas of our national development are being tackled.
This will be guaranteed. I am sure we will resolve the tasks you set and do so as you specified: every year people should feel that changes for the better are being made and that the tasks set forth in the Executive Order are being carried out – and not by 2024 but every year.
Thank you very much again for coming to wish us a happy New Year. The President always has a special, busy schedule. The Government should not relax either, and naturally, everyone should follow the developments in the country during the New Year break.
We would also like to wish you a happy New Year and success in implementing our big national plans that are specified in your decisions. Of course, we would also like to congratulate you on the launch of the Avangard missile because this is indeed vital for our national security. We would like to congratulate you on this as the Supreme Commander-in-Chief.
Happy New Year!
Vladimir Putin: In view of this latest achievement in the defence sector, I would like to thank all those who contributed to this outcome in the Government, including the Finance Ministry and the Industry and Trade Ministry. This was a major effort, and of course, I cannot fail to recognise those who were at the origins of this work.
I have no doubt that those who started this work back in 2003 will see or hear this. This was a lengthy period. It is a major development for science, as it is for the defence industry and in terms of enhancing the country’s defence capability.
From a broader perspective, this event is much more than a national achievement. It goes beyond national interests. This is a serious event. We are the first to have a strategic weapon of a new kind, enabling us to provide for the effective defence of our state and people for decades to come.
Nevertheless, at the end of the day the civilian sector is what matters the most for us. Going back to what I said in the beginning, let me once again stress the importance of working together with the regions on the key development initiatives. This is extremely important.
We will never succeed in any other undertakings, including in the defence and security sectors, international affairs and what have you, unless we achieve the goals we have set in the civilian sector.
Achievements do not come out of thin air. All our successes in all areas rest primarily on economic achievements and new technology.
Once again, I wish you successful work in 2019.
See also
Visit to National Centre for State Defence Control
December 26, 2018
Topics
Civil service
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 26, 2018, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with representatives of the Russian business community
Vladimir Putin held his traditional end-of-year meeting with representatives of the Russian business community. More than 60 business leaders, heads of private and state-owned companies, banks, entrepreneurs’ associations and unions were invited to attend.
December 26, 2018
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
It has become a tradition for us to meet ahead of the New Year to discuss the development of the real economy, review results and go over what has been achieved and what has not, and why.
It is very important for me, for my colleagues from the Presidential Executive Office and the Government to hear your opinion on what we are doing. That said, the major focus right now, as I said earlier at a meeting with the Government, is to implement the national programmes.
Of course, businesses have a major role to play in this large-scale effort. Without them, economic development is hardly imaginable.
We see in you responsible and proactive partners. Society really expects you to be involved in achieving Russia’s breakthrough needs.
Let me remind you, as I have said on a number of occasions, that these national programmes will be launched as soon as the first quarter of next year, and I hope that meaningful agreements to promote national projects will be reached with you and your colleagues who are not here today, and with the business community in general.
What are the priority areas of cooperation, in my opinion?
Primarily, improving labour productivity. As you may know, our goal is to reach a growth rate of 5 percent on this indicator.
It is crucial to upgrade production facilities by introducing state-of-the-art technology with higher efficiency. Another objective is to train professionals and help them improve their skills on a continuous basis.
We have been discussing this with many of you, in fact almost with everyone here, over the past several years. The state and businesses will have to work together to deliver on these objectives.
The environmental wellbeing of our citizens is another priority.
We have already begun transitioning to the best available technology. This must have a positive effect on the environment, primarily in cities that face the greatest environmental stress.
I would also like to propose that the leading Russian companies become part of the effort to develop a market for using a natural gas vehicle fuel, since it is a more environmentally friendly alternative, especially for Russia’s industrial centres.
This will require a modern infrastructure, a network of filling stations, as well as ensuring the transition of corporate fleets, public transit and public utility transport to liquefied natural gas. Of course, we need detailed plans for all these programmes.
Apart from the environmental impact, we need to look at cost effectiveness, and whether they can achieve economic change. These projects must be profitable and relevant for the market. It goes without saying that they will not be imposed on anyone as a burden. If we are able to achieve positive results, the natural gas vehicle segment will develop on its own, which could also help stabilise prices on the market for petroleum products, and the fuel market in general.
Other priorities within our national programmes include introducing digital technology, developing communications systems and transport infrastructure. The government will fully support these projects. We will fine-tune development institutions and offer tools for attracting private investment in these areas.
Overall, supporting Russian businesses and expanding their opportunities is a major priority that has special relevance today as Russian companies face certain external restrictions. It has to be said that behind the veil of politics, unfair competition practices and attempts to get rid of competitors and divide the market are clearly visible. This is evident in a number of specific cases that are obvious. At times, our partners do nothing to conceal this.
We must respond to these steps by enhancing the competitiveness of the Russian economy on a global scale. We need to substantially accelerate industrial growth, promote research and development, as well as facilitate localisation and help Russian companies tap new markets within the country and beyond its borders.
At the same time, let me emphasise that we do not intend to isolate ourselves, as we have discussed on a number of occasions, or create any barriers to international economic cooperation. We are well aware of the fact that this would undermine national development.
Russia is open to trade, technology and investment ties and cooperation with our partners, especially as part of Eurasian integration. This includes efforts to improve the business climate domestically and to simplify administrative procedures.
Of course, we remain committed to supporting Russian exporters, primarily in non-oil-and-gas sectors, such as high-tech and agriculture. Ministries and government agencies are to focus on this activity. We discuss this with our colleagues in the Government all the time. I hope this will be reflected in the Government’s work, as well as in the work of our trade representatives abroad.
Of course, we will have an opportunity to discuss all this in an informal setting. I wish for you to stay positive and for every success in 2019.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Topics
Economy and finance
Industry
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 26, 2018, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Visit to National Centre for State Defence Control
On the instructions of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief, the Defence Ministry carried out a flight test that included a successful launch of an Avangard missile carrying a hypersonic glide vehicle.
December 26, 2018
14:15
Moscow
1 of 6
At the National Centre for State Defence Control. Watching the launch of the Avangard missile complex carrying a hypersonic glide vehicle.
The launch was performed by an operational unit of the Strategic Missile Forces from Dombarovsky missile deployment area against a hypothetical target at the Kura range, Kamchatka Territory.
Flying at hypersonic speed, the glide vehicle performed vertical and horizontal manoeuvres and hit the hypothetical target on time within the range’s combat field.
The tested glider is designed to evade missile defence radars and firepower, and can effectively overcome all the existing and future missile defence systems.
The qualification flight test programme has been completed in full, which makes it possible to make the Avangard complex available to the Strategic Missile Forces within the established timeframe.
Vladimir Putin thanked the creators of the Avangard complex, participants in the tests and the Defence Ministry for their successful work.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades,
I congratulate everyone, primarily, the general designer, engineers, workers – all those who worked to create this advanced weapon system – on this outstanding event in the life of the Armed Forces and in ensuring the security of the Russian state.
This was a major, long-lasting and complex effort that required groundbreaking solutions in areas that matter. All this was accomplished by our researchers, designers and engineers.
The new Avangard system is impervious to current and future air defence and missile defence systems of a potential enemy. This is a great success and a great victory.
As soon as next year, the Avangard system will be put into service. A regiment will be formed to start combat duty.
We will continue to work according to our plans, on both this system and other advanced weapons systems, to equip the Army and Navy.
This is a great New Year’s present for the country.
Please convey my sincere gratitude to everyone who has been involved in this project. I hope we will continue to keep up the good work.
Congratulations! Thank you so much for your work and service.
With regard to this subject in general, I know how this work is organised. However, I will later talk with the general designer and our other colleagues, and take additional measures to ensure unconditional results on all parallel matters that the General Staff and the Defence Ministry consider promising in terms of providing the Army and the Navy with the latest systems, including hypersonic weapons.
We will talk about this later.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 26, 2018, 14:15
Text version