Events
Address to Russian school leavers
June 23, 2018
18:00
Address to Russian school leavers.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends,
I am happy to greet you all and sincerely congratulate all Russian school leavers on the completion of their studies.
Today is one of the most remarkable and memorable days in your lives – a good, touching, exciting and also a sad day because you are parting with your dear old schools, while ahead of you is the beginning of a new major stage in your lives and anticipation of turbulent and interesting changes.
We all believe in you, respect your views on life, your hobbies, even though they are so different from ours, and your choice of path in life.
It is time for you to set meaningful, truly adult goals. I have no doubt that you are ready for this, and that your schools have equipped with everything you need for the future.
The energy of change and challenges are always inspiring; they help us to achieve bright, dizzying victories in further studies and profession, in science, art and sports.
I am confident that you will be able to attain your wildest dreams and conquer the highest peaks.
We will make every effort to make Russia a country of opportunities for you, so that each of you will achieve personal success.
You quickly master new technologies, you already know a lot and know how to do things – take your rightful credit for that. Still, be appreciative and sincerely grateful to your parents, teachers, and mentors for their work, wisdom and patience.
We all believe in you, respect your views on life, your hobbies, even though they are so different from ours, and your choice of path in life.
Such people – daring, free, resolute, independent and responsible – will certainly be able to transform our country, to make a real breakthrough, surprise the world with new records and discoveries.
We will make every effort to make Russia a country of opportunities for you, so that each of you will achieve personal success – in business, in science, in the professional work, in volunteer, public or political activities. All roads should be open to you.
For us, you will be reliable partners in our massive work to build Russia’s future. Do not just limit yourself to ‘likes’ on social networks. Act, acquire new knowledge, just go for it!
Once again, I congratulate you on your graduation.
Good luck to you. Happiness, love and great success.
You can do it!
Topics
School
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 23, 2018, 18:00
Text version