Events
Visit to Morozov Children’s Hospital
June 1, 2018
15:00
Moscow
8 of 8
In the Morozov Children’s City Clinical Hospital. The President visited a girl who is undergoing treatment at the hospital.
Vladimir Putin toured a new building of the Morozov Children’s City Clinical Hospital on International Children’s Day. He was shown around the hospital and talked to medical personnel and several patients.
The hospital’s Chief Physician and Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin told the President about the hospital’s work.
Vladimir Putin also took part in a videoconference with a hospital in Sevastopol, Crimea.
* * *
Videoconference with a Sevastopol children’s hospital
Vladimir Putin: Mr Slobodyanik, colleagues, good afternoon. Greetings on Children’s Day.
Mr Koltunov [Chief Physician at the Morozov Children’s City Clinical Hospital] has just spoken about the work with advanced technology, including with your hospital in Sevastopol.
What do you think about how the work is organised, and what would you like to add?
Chief Physician Alexei Slobodyanik: Mr President, the work in this hospital has been underway for a very long time. Thanks to the Moscow Government’s support, we have installed advanced telecommunications equipment and have held over 50 consultations as of today.
Now we can receive all the necessary information as well as hold videoconference consultations with our colleagues weekly.
However, it is not just about videoconferences. It is virtually possible to be treated at the Morozov Children’s Hospital here monthly. Recently, we have sent over 100 children to the Morozov Hospital, and about 25 children have received high-tech medical care there.
It goes without saying that this would not have happened without the support of the Moscow Government and its supervision over Sevastopol. In particular, we would not have had this equipment or such close contacts without the Moscow Government and its joint work with the Governor.
Vladimir Putin: Does your clinic cooperate with other Sevastopol hospitals?
Alexei Slobodyanik: Yes, of course.
We use the telecommunications equipment for this. We work actively with the Kulakov Centre, the Filatov Hospital and St Petersburg hospitals, because this equipment allows us to hold consultations with all the leading clinics.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent. I wish you success. Greetings on Children’s Day once again. Thank you.
Topics
Children
Healthcare
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2018, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Presenting Order of Parental Glory
On International Children’s Day, Vladimir Putin presented the Order of Parental Glory to parents of large families from Russian regions. The ceremony was held in the Alexander Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace.
June 1, 2018
18:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I am very happy to welcome all the participants of this ceremony for presenting the Order of Parental Glory here, in the Kremlin. As per tradition, this ceremony coincides with International Children’s Day. This is symbolic, because parental love, care and attention as well as support are the most needed and genuine protection a child can have.
There are large close-knit families here in this hall today, who are generous with this kind of maternal and paternal love. Families with many children’s smiles and warmth, where there is openness, mutual help and trust. You have chosen (I am speaking to the parents first of all) a happy, noble, but also a very difficult path of great responsibility and worry that demands all of your efforts, patience and strength.
And, of course, your constant work on yourself, because words alone, even words from the closest people – parents – are not enough to instill such values as kindness, fairness and hard work. You must set a personal example to prove your loyalty to these values every day. This is the only way to raise a respectable person, an upstanding citizen of Russia. And your families are the best proof of this.
Of course, the work of parents does not involve vacations or days off, but it is an amazing reward in itself that outweighs all the difficulties. This is a chance to see your children taking their first steps, growing up and learning, to discover the world once again together with them and to celebrate their success and achievements.
You and your families, represent this very beautiful parental happiness. And I am sure you bring joy and inspiration to many people, especially young people, those who are still working on an image of their future life and dreaming of love, a good family and, of course, of children. Support for family, motherhood and childhood remains among the unconditional priorities of the state.
We will continue to do everything to support people like you. We are, of course, committed to solving the so-called demographic issues, to having natural population growth in the country. In official terms, we need to increase the birth rate. These are all official and, at first sight, somewhat lifeless words and figures, but this is a reflection and continuation of the changes underway in our country.
I understand that parents, especially those who dream of a large family, need confidence that their children will have access to modern, quality education and healthcare, that they will be able to improve their living conditions, live in comfortable, well-organised towns, villages, cities; that every child will have the opportunity to do what he or she is interested in and develop his or her abilities and talents. We consistently work in all these areas and will continue to do so.
In particular, as you know, the maternity capital programme has been extended, and the possible ways to use it are being expanded. Since the beginning of this year, families with a second or a third child enjoy subsidised mortgage interest rates. I hope that the programme to increase the availability of nurseries, which we are launching following a similar project for kindergartens, will also produce the kinds of results people need. We will continue to work on these areas. We need to ensure that families, especially those with many children, are surrounded by attention from the state and society. We will do our best to achieve this.
Let me once again sincerely congratulate you on your well-deserved state awards and thank all the large, close-knit families of our great country that you represent.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
People from different Russian regions, of different nationalities and occupations are here today. There is one thing that unites you all: your soul and your kindheartedness towards children. The people here today are average, ordinary people, but they are the most important ones for Russia, because you bring up children. Children are the most important thing for any state, and you put your whole heart into this; you are extremely professional in the broadest sense of the word.
I am grateful for your warm words addressed to my colleagues and me. We are really doing something to support families with children in general and large families in particular.
I know that it is still too little. But we will try to do everything we can to support your families and other families like yours. Let me assure you that as the country’s capabilities increase, we will keep a close eye on this.
Let me stress again that we have not done all that we could have done. We will work on this. I would like to return the kind words you had for me. I wish you good health and emotional fortitude. I wish you success in the noble work you have dedicated your lives to.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Children
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2018, 18:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
June 1, 2018
17:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 9
With Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
Vladimir Putin received in the Kremlin Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the United Arab Emirates Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, who is in Russia on a working visit.
They discussed the further development of trade between Russia and the UAE, economic and investment cooperation, the current energy situation, and pressing international and regional issues.
In addition, Vladimir Putin and Mohammed Al Nahyan signed the Declaration on Strategic Partnership between the Russian Federation and the United Arab Emirates.
Following the meeting, Vladimir Putin showed the Crown Prince the new Cortege limousine produced in Russia.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, colleagues, friends, I wholeheartedly welcome you in Moscow.
We had a meeting one year ago. The situation in the region, as well as across the world in general, is rapidly changing. I am glad to be able to have this meeting with you so that we can discuss bilateral cooperation and regional developments.
The United Arab Emirates is Russia’s reliable and long-standing partner in the Middle East. Today, we will be signing a memorandum on strategic cooperation and partnership. I think this would be a good step towards even stronger bilateral ties.
There is positive momentum in the relations between our countries in all areas, including political contacts, economic cooperation and security. Last year, trade increased 31 percent, and added another 70 percent in the first quarter of this year.
With your support, the UAE investment fund is working closely with the Russian Direct Investment Fund in Russia, with already over $2 billion in total investment. We are grateful for your trust. At the same time, I do not think you have any reason to be disappointed, since the return on this investment is way above the market average, reaching 15–17 percent.
We will carry this momentum forward, while also continuing to work in the energy sector, where our combined efforts, including by our friends from Saudi Arabia and all OPEC members in general, are yielding positive results in terms of rebalancing the oil and gas market.
We are especially grateful for your initiatives to promote cooperation in high technology, including your initiatives for the industrial sector in the context of the Innoprom Industrial Trade Fair in Yekaterinburg.
In other words, we have quite a few joint projects, and our interests converge in many areas. strongly hope, I am convinced that today’s visit will help strengthen bilateral relations.
Crown Prince Mohammed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President.
I am glad to be in Moscow today. This is a good opportunity for us to meet with you and discuss the strengthening of bilateral relations. We consider them to be extremely important, and I hope that we will continue to strengthen them with you.
As you correctly pointed out, trade between us is stronger since our previous meeting. I expect that it will continue to grow stronger. I think that our cooperation will expand, thanks in part to the signing of the declaration on strategic partnership. Our relationship is very important, and we always strive to strengthen it with you.
Indeed, as you said, since our last meeting, there have been many developments in the Middle East. The United Arab Emirates seek to cooperate with the entire world community, with all our friends, and are working to ensure a prosperous future for our region. And we also look forward to a detailed discussion of this topic with you, Mr President.
<…>
See also
Declaration on the strategic partnership between the Russian Federation and the United Arab Emirates
June 1, 2018
Geography
United Arab Emirates
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Al Nahyan Mohammed bin Zayed
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2018, 17:45
Text version