Events
Meeting with former regional governors
The President met with former governors from a number of Russian regions.
May 23, 2019
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
At a meeting with former regional governors.
The meeting was attended by former governors of the Chelyabinsk Region Boris Dubrovsky, the Altai Republic Alexander Berdnikov, the Murmansk Region Marina Kovtun, the Orenburg Region Yury Berg, Kalmykia Alexander Orlov, and the Kemerovo Region Aman Tuleyev.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
In recent times we have established this tradition where I meet with heads of the Russian Federation regions that have completed their work in these positions. Some take new positions while others focus on personal pursuits. However, almost all former regional governors continue using the experience they gained in their respective regions and their life experience. They may continue working in a new capacity, at a different level and maybe in different regions or in Moscow.
I would like to talk with you about this part, this component. And, of course, I would like to thank you for the work you have done in the regions where you were in office for many years. I would like to hope that you will provide the necessary support to your successors to enable them to smoothly and naturally start working and win the trust of the people who live in the regions that you headed. The main point is to help them use what you, among others, accomplished in the past few years and go further in the interests of people living on these territories, in these regions of the Russian Federation, that is, to achieve the goals we are all working for.
This takes care of what I wanted to say for now. Thank you once again for everything you have done.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2019, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Presenting Russian Federation state decorations
Vladimir Putin presented orders, medals and badges accompanying honorary titles to outstanding Russians and a number of foreign citizens in the Kremlin’s St Catherine Hall.
May 23, 2019
14:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 51
Presenting Russian Federation state decorations.
Decorations were presented to more than 30 representatives of various sectors, including pilot cosmonauts, academic, cultural and sport figures, industrial and agricultural workers.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
First of all, I would like to thank all those who will receive state decorations today for their work and impressive achievements, loyalty to Russia and dedicated, creative and compassionate involvement in the country’s life. Your breakthrough ideas and brilliant endeavours make a tremendous contribution to its development and to our common progressive movement forward. Your exemplary lives inspire millions of people to strive for even greater achievements and to work for the benefit of our Fatherland.
The powerful and dynamic personality of Valentina Matviyenko combines wisdom and experience, a systemic perception of state tasks, an ability to ensure their accomplishment and utmost responsibility. She became the first woman to head the Federation Council, and she is doing a lot in this capacity to strengthen Russian parliamentarianism and federalism. Ms Matviyenko has been awarded the Order of St Andrew the Apostle, one of the highest Russian decorations.
Our Fatherland’s best minds have always strived for its brighter future and called for a worthy education for the future generations. Higher education institutions play a tremendous role in this respect.
Decorations are being presented today to rectors of the country’s leading universities – Viktor Sadovnichy, Mukhadin Eskindarov and Viktor Grishin, and to heads of famous art schools and studios – Nikolai Tsiskaridze and Sergei Andriyaka.
Large-scale and noble work is conducted by the National Centre of Child Haematology, Oncology and Immunology. When its head Alexander Rumyantsev says: “No problem,” (and I have heard him say this many times), it means that the Centre will swing into action and get down to business. This striving to achieve success in treating grave child diseases has become a motto for the Centre’s entire team. Mr Rumyantsev is present in this hall today. His colleagues representing various areas of modern medicine are also present here. Friends, the work of each of you deserves the highest praise.
The space industry always leads in discovering advanced innovations in science and technology. It is being promoted by people dedicated to their business. Many of them participate in orbital flights and carry out the most challenging assignments. Space exploration has become an ordinary profession but it still remains, without any doubt, a heroic profession. Present here today are representatives of this courageous group: Fedor Yurchikhin, Andrei Borisenko and Oleg Novitsky.
Motherland has honoured test pilot Vladimir Kutanin with a high decoration. His work is often linked to emergencies. It is these situations that reveal endurance, courage and true mastery.
I am happy to welcome to this ceremony all those who work in industry, ensure the operation of the key enterprises and sectors of the Russian economy and create our country’s national wealth.
National culture is its inalienable part. Vladimir Fedoseyev, a brilliant conductor and head of the Tchaikovsky Grand Symphony Orchestra, has never betrayed his vocation that implies serving the music and its folk traditions.
An entire constellation of favourite actors, musicians and artists are present here as well. You are creating an inimitable, unique image of modern Russia and reflect the extraordinary variety of its talents.
We are a country of amazing opportunities, a country that is generous, hospitable and open to cooperation and dialogue. We cherish friendship and are grateful to all those who support these traditions and promote the ideas of peace and partnership in a wide variety of areas.
Sport is certainly one of these areas. The colourful festivity that the FIFA World Cup bestowed on us will remain in our memory for a long time to come. I am grateful to all those who helped this dream come true – citizens of Russia, our foreign partners, and, of course, FIFA President Gianni Infantino.
Friends, you have reached impressive heights. I wish you new successes, health and wellbeing. I am glad to see all of you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I see that here, in this hall and among the awardees, of course, and in the hall in general there are representatives of great many different activity areas and professions, such as doctors, teachers, industrial workers, athletes, and representatives of different arts. All of us are one big and invincible team. With the foreign members, who are an ornament to our team, it is becoming as attractive as it looks today.
Thank you very much for your work.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2019, 14:40
Text version