Events
Meeting with Government members
The President held a regular meeting with Government members.
October 9, 2019
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 6
Meeting with Government members.
The meeting participants focused on improving the mechanisms for oversight and supervision activities. Deputy Prime Minister and Chief of the Government Staff Konstantin Chuychenko delivered a corresponding report.
The participants also discussed creating a special service, “a mirror of inspections register,” to receive online information from entrepreneurs on inspections with an eye towards further comparing them with the information in the Unified Register of Inspections. Minister of Economic Development Maxim Oreshkin and Prosecutor General Yury Chaika informed the participants about the results of the work on the website and its integration into the system for prosecutorial supervision of inspections.
In addition, Deputy Prime Minister Maxim Akimov spoke about the results of the 2019 Digital Breakthrough national contest for IT professionals, designers and managers in the digital economy.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
The Digital Breakthrough contest ended, with the finals held on September 27–29. It was a very good event, and I want to congratulate everyone who participated in it and won, but for some reason 22 teams won at the same time.
Mr Akimov, please tell us about it.
Deputy Prime Minister Maxim Akimov
: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
Indeed, the final 48-hour hackathon, a big digital marathon which is recognised as one of world’s largest, brought together over 3,000 participants from 77 Russian regions. The competition was held in 20 main categories, two winners in two categories, as recognised by the jury, so there were 22 prizes.
Cash prizes totalled 500,000 rubles each. In addition to the main prize, the Innovation Support Fund selected, on a competitive basis, 112 young people during the first stage. They will receive grants to promote their projects and teams.
As you noted, one of this competition’s hallmarks is that it was focused on practical rather than theoretical problems, based on requests from the federal authorities or state-owned companies.
Despite the fact that the prizes have been presented to the winners, the bulk of the work based on the projects in the competition is still ahead. In conjunction with the autonomous non-profit organisation, Russia – Land of Opportunity, which hosted the competition, we outlined activities in three areas.
First is expediting projects, bringing them to the point where it is possible to secure funding from one of the development institutes so the process doesn’t stop at the competition and projects can remain active. As of today, 60 projects and teams have been selected for this programme. However, the second stage was announced. It will end on October 14, and 3,000 participants still have time to submit applications if they have not done so yet.
The second part of the efforts is, of course, to facilitate the implementation of the projects from the competition. We already have the first results. Thus, in the Housing, Utilities and Urban Environment category, the solution offered for service calls to order a repairman’s visit will be used in the Perm Territory. The governor showed a lot of interest in this.
In Transport and Logistics, mobile app prototypes for cashless payment of transport fees will be developed in Tomsk.
The solution on smart navigation for technical personnel on a production site was presented to Rosatom and will be implemented by them.
Rostelecom invited a team to develop a service on waste disposal.
Russian Railways will have a programme to audit the coverage areas along railways, based on data from subscriber devices.
There are many other interesting examples that concern the Federal Passenger Company and Rosstat (Federal Service for State Statistics).
The third part is certainly a search for employment opportunities for those who showed high personal competences. This is practically headhunting for the most talented. It was done while the competition was still on. Without even waiting for the results, Rosatom “purchased,” in the positive sense of the word, 72 specialists to detect faults in transport pipelines.
Approximately 15 participants in the hackathon are now being selected for jobs at Rostelecom. For instance, MTS, a private company, engaged four selected teams. This work will certainly continue. The main goal is to avoid losing energy and talent, and most importantly, the confidence that a project will find a specific application.
Mr President, in this context I would like to ask you to support the nearly unanimous desire of all the participants to hold the Digital Breakthrough competition under the aegis of the non-profit organisation Russia – Land of Opportunity in 2020.
This concludes my report. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: All right. I would like to congratulate both the participants and the winners once again.
<…>
Persons
Akimov Maxim
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2019, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Chairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova
The President met with Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova, who reported on the results of the elections held on September 8, 2019.
October 9, 2019
20:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Chairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova.
Vladimir Putin started the meeting by thanking members of the Central Election Commission and everybody who was involved in the election campaign and organisation of the elections.
According to the Chairperson, the elections were held in all 85 Russian constituent entities and were competitive as 8.5 candidates on average competed for each seat in the State Duma, around five candidates competed for each governor post and over seven candidates competed for each seat in legislative bodies.
The Central Election Commission and the observers’ community are currently verifying all the reports on election violations. Fewer than 14% to 15% out of the total 2,000 reports have been confirmed so far.
Commenting on the events around the Moscow City Duma elections, Ella Pamfilova
said that the problems had been mainly due to the fact that the signature collection and verification system is outdated. The Central Election Commission has already prepared suggestions on the system’s improvement.
Ella Pamfilova also reported that 82 regions held municipal elections. That said, the 176 complaints filed with courts came from only eight regions. She added that although the Central Election Commission is not directly responsible for municipal elections, its members worked to prevent and detect violations on a daily basis.
The President noted that, unfortunately, cooperation between the national and municipal authorities is poorly regulated. Therefore, when there is disengagement or insufficient accord between the national and municipal levels in handling social issues, problems arise in the social sphere, as well as in healthcare and education.
Ella Pamfilova continued that the Central Election Commission has developed proposals with regard to its activity.
* * *
On September 8, 2019, elections were held in the Russian Federation where voters elected government members of different levels, including in the by-elections of State Duma deputies, 16 direct elections for heads of constituent entities and elections to the legislative bodies of 13 regions.
Persons
Pamfilova Ella
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2019, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
The Prime Minister reported to the President on the progress of upgrading primary healthcare.
October 9, 2019
17:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedev, we repeatedly return to the issue of primary healthcare. By October 1–2, the Government planned to prepare proposals on steps to improve this important segment of the national healthcare system. I would like to hear your proposals – what the Government thought of and what it proposes – in general.
One of the most important points here is compensation. It needs to be fair and needs to motivate people to work efficiently, so unless we achieve an effective solution here, including in this segment, in the primary healthcare segment, we will not be able to resolve one of the main healthcare problems – the problem of staffing medical facilities.
I think it would be expedient to consider primary care as part of the National Project. We might or might not formalise it, but the fact is obvious that primary care is part of the system in general, and if we do not streamline it at this level, we will be shifting the burden to high-tech federal or regional centres. Anyway, most people use their district and inter-district outpatient clinics and hospitals.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
: Mr President, you were absolutely right to point out some time ago that the modernisation of primary healthcare has not been translated into the work that is now underway in full measure as it should. So on your instructions, proposals have been prepared on what to do in this area, aiming, in general, to improve the quality of primary healthcare.
You just rightly said that the vast majority of people first go to a local outpatient clinic or hospital anyway, including in rural areas, in small towns, or to a central district hospital, or inter-district hospitals. I must admit bluntly that the state these hospitals and clinics are in is a problem in itself, and in some cases it’s just disastrous. So a programme has been prepared, following your instructions, and I signed a resolution, within the framework of your instruction, approving the principles of upgrading primary healthcare and the parameters for evaluating the projects that will be implemented here.
What we are going to do – first, conduct an inventory of healthcare facilities in accordance with this resolution. There are a lot of them and they are in very different conditions. Some are good enough – acceptable – but some are in very, very rough condition at the moment. I am referring to primary care facilities such as central district hospitals and outpatient clinics.
After that, the regional authorities will need to develop layouts for the location of healthcare facilities, new arrangements for primary care. Furthermore, based on these layouts, arrangements and data sheets, which will be approved, either new hospitals and clinics will be built, or old ones will be ungraded, rebuilt, or overhauled where possible, because many of them have long been in need of repairs, and this is quite obvious.
This work will be carried out in accordance with this document. Our colleagues in the regions are to approve regional primary care modernisation programmes by July 1, 2020, and we, in accordance with the instructions you gave and with this document, are to provide the necessary funding in proportions we will agree on with our colleagues in the regions.
You just said this work should be carried out under the same principles as the larger Healthcare National Project. We will do this because these guidelines make it easier; there is less bureaucracy, fewer managerial decisions to make, and things will get done faster so the implementation phase can be reached sooner.
The problem of changing the labour compensation system in the primary care segment is certainly an important priority. As you said, we will definitely prepare proposals in such a way that our decisions are balanced, but at the same time help keep staff in primary care. I must admit that it is an extremely important but difficult task. But ultimately this should lead to improvement in the primary healthcare funding system, I mean state funding through the insurance system that we have.
All of these decisions take effect as of today, but naturally the Government will report to you regularly, and maybe if any adjustments are needed, we will also ask for them.
Vladimir Putin: We regularly experience miscues where the government and municipal cooperation must be effectively maintained. We always have difficulties at this junction because the officials at the government level – both federal and regional – often behave as if it doesn’t concern them or is not a matter of primary importance, whereas their colleagues at the municipal level continuously point to the lack of resources and competences.
I understand that there are difficulties that stem from the fundamental law, but we must by any means regulate this cooperation, because, for example, in this area we launched reorganisation or provided direct assistance for primary healthcare twice from the federal level directly. But it all disappears later: both the material component of primary healthcare and compensation. By the way, the same is true for education. I would like you and your colleagues to pay special attention to this issue and be sure your efforts with the regions and municipalities are effective.
Dmitry Medvedev: We will absolutely do this, Mr President. You are right that this work has been ongoing since 2006 and that later these funds disappeared without a trace and it seems like this work was in vain.
To avoid returning to this issue every decade we will not just try to make our work with the regions and municipalities more effective but we will also probably draft proposals on upgrading legislation. Maybe we should do this in a number of cases as well to avoid problems in relations between government bodies and local administrations in this respect.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
<…>
Topics
Healthcare
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2019, 17:15
Text version