Events
Meeting with Foreign Minister of China Wang Yi
Vladimir Putin received Minister of Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China Wang Yi at the Bocharov Ruchei residence.
May 13, 2019
20:00
Sochi
3 of 6
Meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi.
The participants discussed different issues of bilateral relations.
The Russian delegation included Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Russia to China Andrei Denisov. The Chinese delegation included Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of China to Russia Li Hui, Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Hanhui and Director-General of the Department of European-Central Asian Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Sun Linjiang.
Earlier today, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov held talks in Sochi with his Chinese counterpart.
* * *
Beginning of conversation with Foreign Minister of China Wang Yi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister, friends,
We are very happy to see you. I know that you have already had detailed talks with the Foreign Minister of Russia, your friend.
But at the beginning of our conversation I would like to convey my best wishes to my friend for his warm reception in Beijing during a major international conference devoted to the implementation of the Belt and Road initiative, mostly its economic aspect.
I would like to emphasise once again that we consider this initiative very productive, interesting and significant. We believe that it fully fits in with the integration association that is being established in the post-Soviet space by Russia and its partners. I am referring to the EAEU.
The talks that are now being conducted between the People’s Republic of China and the EAEU are certainly an element in the implementation of the ideas we discussed in Beijing.
I would like to congratulate you once again on the successful holding of this major international event and express hope that on a bilateral plane Russia and China will make a very tangible contribution to the implementation of these plans.
As for bilateral relations, they are being successfully developed in the most literal meaning of this word. I know that the main goal of your visit today is to coordinate the basic parameters of this year’s main event in bilateral relations. I am referring to the state visit of President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping to Russia, which we are looking forward to. I believe we will be discussing this with you today.
Minister of Foreign Affairs of China Wang Yi (retranslated):Thank you, Mr President, for finding the time to meet with us.
First of all, let me pass along greetings from your great friend, Mr Xi Jinping. He highly appreciated your recent visit to Beijing for the 2nd Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. Your participation made a great contribution to the success of the forum. The President is also pleased with the results of your meeting with him on the sidelines of the forum which further consolidated bilateral trust. This is also very important for our joint celebrations of the 70th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations.
The 70th anniversary is an important symbol for further developing bilateral relations. President Xi Jinping’s state visit is coming up. My great friend Foreign Minister [Sergei] Lavrov and I compared notes on this. We will take the preparations seriously.
I have three hopes. The first one is that the leaders of our two countries will fully consider the good experience of the 70-year development of bilateral relations to raise them to new heights and will open a new chapter and a new epoch in the history of our bilateral relations.
My second hope is that under your guidance all agencies and ministries will continue to be able to reinforce mutual trust and mutual support and prove to the world that our relations are not vulnerable to obstruction or outside interference and that we will always maintain the rapid pace at which our bilateral relations are progressing.
And thirdly, we hope that under the guidance of our two leaders our practical cooperation in all fields will advance toward new horizons and that our mutual trust will yield tangible benefits to the people of both nations in the interests of the development and prosperity of our countries.
Today is an excellent opportunity to hear your valuable opinion about the President’s forthcoming visit and celebrations of the 70th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 13, 2019, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Conversation with employees of Gorbunov Kazan Aviation Plant
During his visit to the Gorbunov Kazan Aviation Plant, the President spoke briefly with its employees.
May 13, 2019
17:40
Kazan
3 of 4
Conversation with employees of Gorbunov Kazan Aviation Plant.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon! It is hot here. But the atmosphere is good.
Remark: It is a working atmosphere.
Vladimir Putin: Precisely. Things are on the move, as they say. The quantity of equipment that you are making is on the rise. I hope, the quality is guaranteed, as has always been the case at your enterprise.
Remark: Thank you, Mr President, for the fact that our plant is working at full capacity. You see, an ambitious programme is underway, including repairs and major upgrades of the Tu-22M3 and Tu-160 aircraft, manufacturing the Tu-160M2 and getting ready for the production of an advanced long-range aviation complex.
The team is looking confidently to the future and making plans even for decades to come.
Vladimir Putin: Just so. That is the way it should be, as we signed a contract for 10 aircraft early last year. Ten more Tu-160s will be upgraded. Perhaps, we will even make it more than 10. I spoke with the Defence Minister. Given that the Tu-160 will be a completely new aircraft with a vast array of capabilities that the Defence Ministry needs, it is not ruling out expanding its contract in the future. So, that will keep you busy. How many people worked here in Soviet times? Several tens of thousands?
Director of the Gorbunov Kazan Aviation Plant Nikolai Savitskikh: 28,000.
Vladimir Putin: Almost 30,000. Then it fell to 3,500. I hope that these tragic years, the mid-1990s, and the most tragic year of 1995, will never repeat in our history or in the future of your enterprise. By the way, it would be correct to honour the memory of the outstanding director and aircraft manufacturer, your former CEO Vitaly Kopylov. We will give it some thought.
Nikolai Savitskikh: We have already decided on this.
President of the Republic of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov: We built a monument to him.
President of UAC Yury Slyusar: We will name an aircraft after him. One of the first, the production of which stopped when he was CEO here.
Rustam Minnikhanov: It is only right.
Vladimir Putin: Right.
We will also need to do it nationwide. Back then during those difficult years, your republic helped a lot. It brought food here, to the enterprise, and had it distributed among the workers.
I am aware that wages are slowly rising. Your bosses say it is 50,000 to 54,000. Not everyone is making that much. Pay varies across different categories of workers.
Nikolai Savitskikh: This is the average wage.
Vladimir Putin: And wages will go up gradually.
Nikolai Savitskikh: The employees could use some help. Young people should be brought aboard.
Remark: The factory floors are being renovated, production processes relaunched, and new machine tools brought in. Young people see that there is a future and join us.
Vladimir Putin: Knowing that the machine tools were made in Russia is particularly gratifying. We toured the grounds and had a look. The domestic machine tool industry has been rebuilt almost from the ground up. Management told me that their output accounts for 54 percent of our market. The quality is good, great quality. So, we will be working on this as well.
Remark: Young workers are joining us, and we have become mentors. We hold contests for them modelled on WorldSkills. We provide a training ground for Russia’s national team for fields like Aviation Equipment Maintenance and Sheet Metal Processing. Also, in conjunction with the Republic of Tatarstan, we are getting ourselves ready for the opening of the WorldSkills 2019 competition which will be held here in Kazan in August. I would like to invite you, Mr President, to attend the opening ceremony.
Vladimir Putin: I can do no more than open it. I cannot do what you do. (Laughter.)
I wish you all the best and every success.
See also
Visiting the Gorbunov Kazan Aviation Plant
May 13, 2019
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 13, 2019, 17:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials and defence industry CEOs
Vladimir Putin opened another series of meetings on the defence industry’s development.
May 13, 2019
21:15
Sochi
6 of 6
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials and defence industry CEOs.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues,
Today, we are launching another series of meetings on the development of the Armed Forces and on providing the Army and the Navy with new weapons and equipment.
We have made serious headway in this direction over the past few years. For example, modern weapons now account for 82 percent of our strategic nuclear forces’ weaponry. Their share has reached 74 percent for the Aerospace Forces, over 60 percent for the Navy and almost 50 percent for the Ground Forces.
I would like to note that the potential of armed services and service branches allows our Armed Forces to accomplish all their tasks.
At the same time, we should heed changes in the global military and political situation that negatively affect regional and global security. First of all, this implies the withdrawal of the United States from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, as well as a number of other factors.
All this requires that we consistently develop advanced weapons systems based on cutting-edge technology. These weapons allow us to reliably guarantee the strategic balance of power today, and they will certainly retain this capability in the long-term. Therefore, they will assuredly shield Russia from hypothetical threats.
As usual, we will hear reports from commanders-in-chief and commanders of services and branches of the Armed Forces, and also discuss the delivery of advanced weapons and military equipment to army units. In addition to this, beginning this year, as I have already informed some of our colleagues, I propose changing the format of these biannual meetings. The entire series of meetings will now be devoted to a specific service or branch of the Armed Forces.
Ahead of these working meetings, we, together with Defence Ministry leadership, will visit the corresponding military quarters and firing ranges as well as defence industry enterprises manufacturing military products for the services and branches in question. I believe that this would help us get a deeper insight into matters related to military supplies to specific branches and services of the Army and the Navy. These efforts will also be related to producing the needed military hardware and introducing it into service, personnel training and preparing the relevant infrastructure so that this hardware does not stand idle but is put to efficient use and benefits from maintenance and storage conditions that the advanced and high-technology products require.
As you know, we visited the Gorbunov Kazan Aviation Plant today, where the legendary strategic bomber Tu-160 and other long-range and strategic aviation systems are assembled and modernised. All in all, I think that we can be satisfied with how the enterprise is developing in terms of its equipment and personnel training, and most importantly in terms of the products it makes. I proceed from the premise that we will never let manufacturers of this kind fall apart and will prevent the tragedies that took place in the mid-1990s.
During the current series of meetings, we will focus on the state of the Aerospace Forces and their development prospects. The Aerospace Forces play a highly significant role in military operations and reliably control air space and outer space, and will retain this role in the future. I am sure that you also realise this, and that you proceed from this assumption. The significance of this component will continue to increase. Therefore, our task is to actively streamline the Aerospace Forces’ combat capability and to improve combat training standards.
On April 2, 2019, I approved the Concept for Developing the Russian Federation’s Aerospace Defence until 2030. The document heeds changes in the military political situation, the improvement of aerospace weapons systems and the transformation of opinions regarding their use.
I would like to note the following key aspects.
First of all, a study of contemporary military conflicts shows that the creation of advanced air defence systems is a high-priority aspect of the Aerospace Forces’ development.
Russian air defence systems have always been renowned for their efficiency and reliability. They fully confirmed their impressive specifications during real-life combat operations in Syria. Therefore it is necessary to consistently equip the Aerospace Forces with the most advanced air defence systems, including the long-range S-400 and the shorter-range Pantsir-S.
In 2018, military units received four S-400 regiments with long-range guided surface-to-air missiles and three Pantsir-S battalions under state defence contracts. This work must also continue throughout 2019.
I would also like to note that state tests of the up-to-date S-350 Vityaz air defence system were completed in March 2019. The system has enhanced firepower and additional missiles. This is of paramount importance during the hypothetical all-out use of highly accurate smart strike weapons. Today I would like to ask you to report on the results of this work, as well as on matters requiring special attention on our part.
The scientific and production potential of the Russian defence industry and the potential of our labour collectives, the personnel potential, should ensure the planned rates of rearmament so that forces get advanced equipment capable of effectively resisting the potential adversary’s air attack weapons, including hypersonic weapons.
We know that for the time being no one in the world except us, except Russia, has weapons of this kind. But we are also well aware that the leading countries will sooner or later acquire such weapons. As far as we are concerned, they should gain them later than sooner. What does this “later” mean? This means that we must provide ourselves with the means of protection against these types of weapons earlier than the armies I have mentioned put hypersonic weapons on alert duty.
And this will happen if we work according to plan and with the quality that has been achieved to date. Please pay attention to this. We know and the specialists know which systems I am talking about and what I have in mind. This requires a special focus and a highly professional approach both in planning and preparing for this work. But it must be done and done within the timeframe we have.
A key task, among other things, is raising the level of airspace surveillance. In December 2018, the Konteiner over-the-horizon detection radar was put on experimental alert duty. It makes it possible to monitor the air situation over most of Western Europe and the Middle East.
Please mention in your reports the plans for further development of Aerospace Forces’ weapons designed to ward off potential air and space threats.
Let us get down to work.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 13, 2019, 21:15
Text version