Events
Meeting with First Vice-President of Azerbaijan Mehriban Aliyeva
Vladimir Putin received First Vice-President of Azerbaijan Mehriban Aliyeva in Novo-Ogaryovo. Ms Aliyeva is in Russia on an official visit.
November 22, 2019
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 7
With First Vice-President of Azerbaijan Mehriban Aliyeva.
During their meeting, Vladimir Putin awarded Azerbaijan's First Vice-President Mehriban Aliyeva with a Russian state order, the Order of Friendship, for strengthening and developing relations between the two countries.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms First Vice-President,
Allow me to welcome you to Moscow as First Vice-President. This is your first visit in this status.
I know that you have a busy schedule. Prime Minister of Russia Dmitry Medvedev has already informed me about your meeting. I know that you had a lot to talk about, including the increasing volume of trade and economic ties. Over the first nine months of this year, trade grew by 26 percent, which is a serious indicator.
We support relations in practically all areas, between parliaments and public organisations. I have good, trust-based relations with the President of Azerbaijan.
I know that you and [Federation Council Speaker] Ms Matviyenko will also open the tenth [Russian-Azerbaijani] Interregional Forum. I believe this is a vital area of cooperation, because a large share of cooperation happens between regions.
I would like to thank you for accepting our invitation and for visiting Moscow.
First Vice-President of Azerbaijan Mehriban Aliyeva: Mr President,
First of all, I would like to express my deepest gratitude for inviting me to come to Russia on an official visit. I am very happy to be in Moscow again; Moscow for me is a close and dear city, where I spent my student years, and I am happy to see Moscow every time.
I would also like to thank you for awarding me with a Russian state award, the Order of Friendship.
This is a high assessment of my activities aimed at promoting friendly ties between Russia and Azerbaijan.
I would like to take this opportunity to convey to you greetings and best wishes from the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, who highly values relations with you and attaches special importance to bilateral ties. Regular meetings between you and Mr Aliyev determine the versatile and dynamic nature of our bilateral relations. I would also like to pass on to you a proposal from the President of Azerbaijan to visit our republic at your convenience.
Relations between our countries are based on firm, good traditions of neighbourliness and friendship. Relations with the Russian Federation hold a very important place in the foreign policy of Azerbaijan. As you noted, we are seeing positive dynamics in all areas. We maintain regular political dialogue at the level of heads of state. Azerbaijan and Russia support each other in the international arena. As you pointed out, economic cooperation is already bearing fruit, and this is gratifying.
I would like to note that tourism from Russia to Azerbaijan is constantly on the rise. Last year, 900,000 Russians visited Azerbaijan, and this year we expect the number to increase.
Naturally, I would like to make special mention of our relations in education and culture. I think they are truly an example to follow. You know that Azerbaijan has deep respect for the culture of the people living in Russia, Russian culture as such and the Russian language.
Branches of Lomonosov Moscow State University and Sechenov Medical State University are operating successfully in Baku, our capital. This year, we launched the joint implementation of the dual master’s degree programme at the Azerbaijan Diplomatic Academy and the Moscow State Institute of International Relations.
In Azerbaijan 338 schools offer instruction in Russian, and 14 state universities have Russian-language departments. About 11,000 Azerbaijani students study in Russia.
And, of course, the many-thousand-strong Russian community of Azerbaijan is making a befitting contribution to the overall development of our country.
Thank you again for your invitation, warm reception and hospitality. I am confident that Russian-Azerbaijani relations will develop successfully for the benefit of the people of both countries.
Vladimir Putin: Madam First Vice-President,
I had planned to proceed to ceremony at once but I cannot fail to react to what you have just said, especially about our humanitarian ties and the attitude towards the Russian language in Azerbaijan.
Indeed, this is a former Soviet republic where Russian culture and the Russian language enjoy respect and we feel this. I know that you personally and the President of Azerbaijan take an active part in supporting this.
We appreciate this very much because this is a foundation that allows us to develop relations in other areas, including the economy and humanitarian ties, on a large scale. We are very grateful to you for this and will do everything to support this trend towards appreciating our common asset. After all, this is what allows us to communicate with each other without barriers and obstacles and to develop personal and political relations.
Mehriban Aliyeva: This goes without saying, Mr President. This is government policy in Azerbaijan, and I think in the future we can devote even more attention to this area with respect to younger generations. Our generations have common roots, a common history. The younger generation is growing and we must maintain and consolidate personal contacts, humanitarian ties between the younger generations.
Vladimir Putin: Please convey my best wishes to the President of Azerbaijan. I hope I will have the pleasure of meeting with him on December 20 in St Petersburg.
Mehriban Aliyeva: Thank you for the invitation.
Vladimir Putin: Let me move on to this pleasant ceremony that I mentioned and that you know about. But first I would like to say the following: this is, of course, a government award, the Order of Friendship. In a way, this is a formal acknowledgement, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this was a conscientious decision. It was not made simply because you have come to see us and you are one of the top officials in Azerbaijan. No, this is not the case. It is related to your work, to your activities, and to your efforts to keep inter-governmental ties at the current high level, and we appreciate this very much.
The very name of the order reflects what you are doing in developing relations between Azerbaijan and the Russian Federation. This is exactly what it is called: the Order of Friendship.
Thank you very much for your efforts and your friendship. (Vladimir Putin confers the Order of Friendship to Madam Aliyeva.)
Mehriban Aliyeva: Mr President, I would like to express to you once again my deep gratitude for this order.
In your letter of greetings, you referred to me as a genuine friend to Russia. I must say this is a great honour for me to hear these words from the President of the Russian Federation. I am happy to say that I have made a modest contribution to the consolidation of our strategic partnership.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Azerbaijan
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2019, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on economic issues
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on economic issues to discuss measures to ensure sustainable and dynamic economic growth and other pressing matters.
November 22, 2019
17:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
Meeting on economic issues.
The meeting was attended by Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Presidential Aide Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Oreshkin
, and Governor of the Central Bank Elvira Nabiullina
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
As per our tradition, today we will be talking about the current economic situation, and discussing what needs to be done in the shortly in the real economy and in the budgetary and monetary spheres, as well as what we need to especially focus on.
As you know, yesterday, on November 21, the State Duma adopted the federal budget for 2020–2022, as well as the budgets of the three state extra-budgetary funds.
Obviously, over the next three years, we need not only to consolidate the current positive trends, but also to make economic growth more sustainable, high quality and dynamic, to ensure growth in people’s incomes.
I suggest we also discuss other current topics and compare notes. I hope once we are on the same page, we will have better coordination between various ministries and departments, various agencies that deal with economic issues.
Let us start.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2019, 17:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Russian Federation Security Council
The President chaired a meeting of the Russian Federation Security Council to discuss prospects for the development of the Armed Forces and other troops, military units and agencies engaged in defence for the period until 2030.
November 22, 2019
14:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
8 of 9
Meeting of Russian Federation Security Council.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we will discuss ways and prospects for the development of the Russian military in the upcoming decade, until 2030. We will outline the tasks we will have to deal with in order to guarantee Russia’s national interests and security.
Our military, namely, the Armed Forces, the National Guard, other military units and agencies, as well as the country’s defence industry sector play a key role in ensuring Russia’s sovereignty. It is very important that their components are maintained at a certain level, and that they operate professionally and in a coordinated manner.
As we can see, the world is facing serious threats and challenges. There are many uncertainty factors. Technology is developing rapidly, including military technology, while competition and rivalry are growing stronger and morphing into new forms. There are old smouldering conflicts in various regions of the planet, and new ones keep appearing. The leading countries are actively developing their offensive weapons. I would like to add that the so-called ‘nuclear club’ is receiving new members, as you well know. We are also seriously concerned about the NATO infrastructure approaching our borders, as well as the attempts to militarise outer space.
A significant blow to the weapons control system was the US withdrawal from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty under a far-fetched pretext. The threat of proliferation of such missiles in various parts of the world has aggravated tension even more.
In these conditions, it is important to make adequate and accurate forecasts, analyse the possible changes in the global situation, and to use the forecasts and conclusions to develop our military potential.
I would like to note that a great deal has been done over the past years to strengthen all the security agencies. The implementation of decisions made at the Security Council meeting on July 5, 2013, facilitated this to a great extent.
For example, the Military Doctrine and several other documents on strategic planning were revised. They outlined and specified the areas of the security agencies’ joint activities to ensure Russia’s security, as well as their defence tasks.
I would like to single out the successful implementation of the State Armament Programme, which made it possible to begin major technical re-equipment of the military. The share of advanced weapons in the Army and the Navy’s equipment accounts for over 68 percent today, and some of the equipment is years ahead of its foreign analogues.
The operation against terrorist groups in Syria was a serious professional test for our military. Let me note once again that the personnel of the Russian Aerospace Forces, the Navy, the Special Operations Forces, the military police and other agencies and services fulfilled their tasks completely and professionally, preventing the militants from pushing on to Russia.
As you know, large-scale and active hostilities are over, but the combat experience received there is needed today in the military building and during the annual exercises and unplanned inspections.
Recently such key indicators of the military organisations’ development as the quality of materiel procurement and mobilisation readiness have increased significantly. The systems of territorial defence and training of military experts have improved.
Last year military-political agencies were established, which address important tasks of the patriotic education of the personnel and recruits.
Of course, special focus was made on the defence industry complex. The Military and Industrial Commission was formed to ensure more detailed coordination between the security agencies and defence enterprises in the implementation of the state defence order.
In 2016–2017, the government covered, ahead of time, defence companies’ loans they had drawn to fulfil the State Armament Programme. In addition, new financial mechanisms were established to help increase the industry’s economic stability and retain the personnel.
Our task for the next decade is to continue strengthening and developing the military, technical and personnel potential of the country's defence industry. In this regard, I would like to highlight several fundamental points.
First, it is essential to ensure a balanced development of all components of the defence industry, primarily through competent and rational use of budget allocations, and material and technical resources. They are not too big – if you compare with how much other leading countries allocate for these purposes.
Second. We must improve the management system in the defence industry. This system should be modern, reliable, multi-functional, and it should use advanced information and analytical systems, communications and intelligence. In order to address defence and security issues effectively, a clear interaction procedure should be established between law enforcement agencies and authorities at all levels.
Third. In the coming years, the share of modern weapons and equipment in the Russian Army and Navy and other services must increase; it should reach 70 percent and continue to be maintained at that level.
What does this mean in practical terms? It means that, despite all the turbulent technological changes in the world, our Armed Forces must be equipped with the most up-to-date technology. We have actually achieved this, which is a rare occurrence for both Russia and the rest of the world in modern history: we have gone a step ahead of other leading military powers, and we must make every effort to maintain this level in the future in the most important areas of development.
At the same time, in the strategic nuclear forces, which play a key role in containing potential aggressors and maintaining the global balance of power, the share of modern weapons should be even greater.
I also would like to note that next year, we will begin drafting the State Armament Programme until 2033 and, accordingly, a programme for the development of the defence industry.
Our main objective for the new period is to improve the quality of weapons and equipment and increase their output. I am referring to modern and advanced high-precision weapons and means of aerospace defence, as well as the broad use of artificial intelligence in creating military products. In particular, we must expand the product line of reconnaissance and attack unmanned aerial vehicles, laser and hypersonic systems and weapons based on new principles of physics, as well as robotic systems capable of performing a variety of tasks on the battlefield.
Fourth. The defence industry organisations must increase the level of production and technological readiness for the development and serial production of modern weapons and equipment. We should think about this in advance, as we did during the previous phase. As you may recall, we allocated significant funds to re-equip defence industry enterprises during the first phase, so they could produce modern equipment. We managed to accomplish that. We should keep the next phases of our work fail-proof no matter what.
At the same time, as I have already mentioned, it is important to expand the range and volume of civilian products, including under the national projects.
Colleagues,
Increasing the prestige of military service is among the military establishment’s top priorities and is directly related to improving the social guarantee system for service members and their families.
The monetary allowance of service members grew by 8.3 percent over the past two years, and the size of military pensions increased as well. More than 42,000 army and other service personnel have received permanent housing and almost 275,000 members of the military have received service housing since 2016. Over 405 billion rubles were allocated to develop the funded mortgage system for military personnel, of which about 142 billion rubles were made available in 2019.
I want to emphasise that this work must continue. There should be no glitches when it comes to adjusting monetary allowances for inflation. Dignified living and service conditions are an essential and determining factor for our country’s military.
Our service members should know that when they perform important tasks away from their homes and families in harsh conditions involving heightened risk and often life-threatening situations, their Motherland, the state they serve is taking good care of them.
Let us get to the discussion.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: November 22, 2019, 14:00
Text version