Events
Meeting with Nursultan Nazarbayev
September 7, 2019
19:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With first President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Vladimir Putin received in the Kremlin the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
.
The discussion covered issues of Russia-Kazakhstan partnership, as well as regional and international problems.
Vladimir Putin and Nursultan Nazarbayev continued the discussion during a working lunch.
* * *
President of Russian Vladimir Putin: Mr Nazarbayev, thank you for coming to Russia on this festive day, especially since it is the opening of your pavilion at VDNKh.
There is no need to stress again that to a large extent you are the builder of Russia-Kazakhstan relations, which have attained an unprecedented high level of alliance in the humanitarian, military areas, military technical cooperation. In fact, there are no areas where we have not achieved impressive results.
We are always glad to see you, and I am pleased that our personal contacts are continuing.
Welcome.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: Thank you, Mr President, for the invitation to attend Moscow City Day celebrations.
Moscow is a city that is in all our hearts. We have been visiting it since our youth, we studied, worked, and took part in all the events. Coming to Moscow is always a pleasure, especially now. And the exhibition of the national economy has also been with us since our youth.
Our lives are spent together, and people’s friendship turns into a huge power. It is especially good to say ahead of the 75th anniversary of Victory that the real winner in that terrible war was the friendship of all peoples living in the Soviet Union. We are the sons of the fathers who were victors, and this is why we live the way we do.
I think we are the only generation in many centuries that was born and grew up without a war. This is a result of our parents’ selfless efforts and their struggle.
Kazakhstan-Russia relations are ideal, one can say, they are an example for all other nations. I did my best for this to happen and I hope it will be continued. I am watching over it because, firstly, it is advantageous for Kazakhstan. Secondly, it is necessary for all of us.
The Eurasian Economic Union, which we worked so hard to bring into being and to build up, is functioning and developing against all odds, and benefits all our nations.
This is why we have some matters to discuss even though I am not the President any more – I am the first President, the former President, the leader of the nation with certain duties, and I keep strengthening our state, helping my successors to carry on what I launched and founded.
I see how hard you work, Mr President, very hard. Yesterday you were in Vladivostok, here today and tomorrow somewhere else. Foreign visits and negotiations are very demanding, so you need good health. This is what I wish you with all my heart.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: I wish you good health, success to Russia, overcoming all hardships, and it will definitely happen, it has always happened. And all the very best to you.
Thank you again for the opportunity to meet with you personally in the Kremlin.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Moscow City Day celebrations
September 7, 2019
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Nazarbayev Nursultan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 7, 2019, 19:45
Text versionEvents
Moscow City Day celebrations
September 7, 2019
14:20
Moscow
5 of 30
Moscow City Day celebrations at VDNKh.
Vladimir Putin took part in Moscow City Day celebrations at VDNKh.
Among those invited were Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev
, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
, honoured Moscow citizens and representatives of public and youth organisations.
First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev
was also attending the celebrations.
Following the concert, Vladimir Putin, Dmitry Medvedev, Sergei Sobyanin and Nursultan Nazarbayev visited the renovated Kazakhstan Pavilion at VDNKh. They toured a traditional Kazakh yurt, an arts and crafts exhibition, an agricultural fair, and items from the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The President also signed the distinguished visitors' book.
* * *
Speech at Moscow City Day celebrations
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear Muscovites and city guests, Mr Sobyanin,
My most sincere greetings to you on City Day.
This year, the main celebrations are taking place at the legendary VDNKh exhibition centre, which has recently marked its 80th anniversary.
Expansive reconstruction is underway here. We see the renewal of the splendid and eye-catching image of VDNKh, as well as the results of careful and respectful efforts to restore the exhibition's architectural and historic landmarks.
VDNKh is successfully bringing back its key mission of being the largest expo, museum, cultural, educational and public space, and proves Moscow's enduring importance as a creative and unifying centre.
This role, which defines Moscow's prominence, is a key one in its centuries-long history, as well as in creating and developing the Russian state and strengthening our multi-ethnic nation.
Today, Moscow is not only a modern megalopolis and the capital of our country; the city is justly Russia's heritage and a unique reflection of all its eras and the deep, generous spirit. The city has gained respect of our country's residents with its beauty and achievements.
Our capital cherishes the memory of its roots, its heroes and enthusiasts, and its many generations that became a cherished and essential part of the city. And this is a city that always looks into the future, with its exciting, busy and often rather tough rhythm.
But Moscow is also a hospitable city, which opens vast opportunities for self-fulfilment, rejects indifference and inertia, demands constant advancement and efforts to explore new things, and full commitment of those who live and work here.
We see how the city has changed over the past few years – this is an obvious fact. We see how much has been done to create an efficient business environment, social, transport and digital infrastructure, and a comfortable public space.
With its huge size, the metropolis has enough problems. But much effort has been taken [in this regard] in all Moscow districts, each of which is the size of a large European city.
All Moscow streets, public gardens, avenues and spots are very different, yet they combine in harmony and complement each other, merging to form a unique and inimitable image of Moscow, the city we love and rightfully feel proud of.
I would like to thank Moscow Mayor Mr Sobyanin and all Muscovites for their efficient joint efforts and commitment to tackling the hardest challenges and achieving high goals of modern times.
Way to go, dear Muscovites! Happy City Day! I wish Moscow and all our country success and prosperity.
Thank you.
See also
Visit to Luzhniki sports complex
September 7, 2019
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 7, 2019, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Moldova Igor Dodon
September 7, 2019
17:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 5
With President of Moldova Igor Dodon.
Vladimir Putin received in the Kremlin President of the Republic of Moldova Igor Dodon
, who is in Russia on a working visit.
During the conversation the President of Russia expressed confidence that the stabilisation of situation in Moldova offers an opportunity to further develop bilateral relations.
Attending the meeting were Russian Deputy Prime Minister and Special Presidential Representative for the Development of Trade and Economic Relations with the Republic of Moldova Dmitry Kozak
and Moldova’s Deputy Prime Minister for Reintegration, co-chair of the Moldovan-Russian intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific and technical cooperation Vasile Sova.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I am very glad to see you, Mr President. We do not meet often but always with a good result.
We are very glad that the overall situation in Moldova has stabilised, and there is a possibility to use this stability, although it is relative, to develop the economy and our bilateral relations. I am happy to have this opportunity today to talk all this over.
President of the Republic of Moldova Igor Dodon: Mr President,
First, thank you very much for the opportunity to discuss bilateral issues today.
I would like to thank you for supporting the peaceful process of power transfer in Moldova alongside all our external partners. What happened in Moldova in early June is a new chance for the country’s progress, a new domestic consensus and a very important foreign policy consensus among key geopolitical actors.
There has been a change for the better in our bilateral relations since June. Contacts are maintained at all levels, and while previously the Russian agenda was the President’s prerogative in Moldova, now the Speaker of Moldova’s Parliament has visited Moscow, and the co-chairs met in Chisinau.
We are set to hold a meeting of the intergovernmental commission in September, the first meeting in the past three years. There are considerable changes regarding trade. We will hold an investment forum in Chisinau in September. Thus, there are positive developments in all areas of bilateral relations.
I would like to discuss all of that and see how we will proceed in other segments.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
<…>
Geography
Moldova
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Dodon Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 7, 2019, 17:50
Text version