Events
Beginning of conversation with DPRK State Affairs Commission Chairman Kim Jong-un
April 25, 2019
07:10
Russky Island, Vladivostok
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chairman,
I am very pleased to meet with you in Russia. Our colleagues agreed to hold this meeting a long time ago.
First of all, allow me to congratulate you on your election to the high office of the Head of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. I sent you a letter of congratulations to this effect at the time, but now I have the pleasure to convey my congratulations to you in person.
In this connection, let me note that last year we marked 70 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. The founder of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea paid his first visit to Moscow in 1949. I also remember my visit to your country.
Your father was among those who spearheaded the signing of the Treaty of Friendship between our countries, which is a fundamental instrument. I have no doubt that today’s visit to Russia will help further develop bilateral relations and help us better understand ways of bringing about a settlement on the Korean Peninsula, what we can do together, and what Russia can do to facilitate the positive processes that we are witnessing today.
We certainly welcome your efforts to promote inter-Korean dialogue and normalisation in DPRK-US relations.
Of course, there is a lot we have to achieve on the bilateral track to promote trade and economic relations, as well as cultural and educational ties.
Welcome!
Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the DPRK Kim Jong-un (retranslated): I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your kind invitation and for paying so much attention to my visit despite your extremely packed schedule. You have travelled thousands of kilometres from Moscow in order to meet me here.
I would also like to congratulate you on the fact that last year the people of Russia elected you as the head of Great Russia, as well as on your successful efforts to build a stronger Russia.
Mr President, just as you, I hope that our meeting will help strengthen and expand the traditional and long-standing ties of friendship between DPRK and Russia.
I would also like to say that the international community has been following very closely the latest developments on the Korean Peninsula. I hope that our talks make a significant contribution to this process, by offering us an opportunity to assess these developments, exchange views and combine our efforts to settle this matter. I look forward to a meaningful exchange of opinions today.
Vladimir Putin: I am sure it will be that way.
Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Russian-North Korean talks
April 25, 2019
Geography
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Kim Jong-un
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 25, 2019, 07:10
Text versionEvents
Speeches at the official reception on behalf of the President of Russia
April 25, 2019
12:00
Russky Island, Vladivostok
At the official reception on behalf of the President of Russia in honour of Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the DPRK Kim Jong-un.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade Chairman, friends,
Allow me to once again welcome Comrade Kim Jong-un and all our Korean colleagues to the Russian Federation.
In 2002, it was here in Vladivostok that we greeted your father, Kim Jong Il, who always commanded a lot of respect in Russia. Today we have held very constructive and business-like talks in a friendly atmosphere as is always the case in the relations between our two countries.
Let me remind you that last year Russia and the DPRK marked 70 years since the establishment of our diplomatic ties. We reached this milestone against the backdrop of a challenging international environment. Nevertheless we see that the situation around the Korean Peninsula is becoming increasingly stable, which is largely attributable to Comrade Kim Jong-un’s initiatives. Russia seeks to proactively facilitate progress toward a political and diplomatic settlement. We welcome DPRK’s steps to establish direct dialogue with the United States and normalise relations between North and South Korea. We proceed from the premise that there is no alternative to a peaceful resolution of the nuclear and other problems in the region.
For its part, Russia stands ready to stay involved in efforts to ease tension on the peninsula and strengthen security in Northeast Asia in general. As a Korean saying goes, by joining forces, you can move a mountain. We strongly believe that this is the path towards success. With the proactive support of the international community and all interested countries, we will definitely achieve the goal of building a strong peace, stability and prosperity on the Korean Peninsula.
I raise a toast to further strengthening the friendship and cooperation between the Russian Federation and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, for the prosperity of the peoples of our countries, and for the health of Chairman Kim Jong-un and all those present here today.
Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea Kim Jong-un (retranslated): President Vladimir Putin, Russian friends,
We have come to our friendly neighbour, the Russian Federation, and are having a landmark meeting with President Vladimir Putin.
First of all, let me express my sincere gratitude to you, Mr President, for inviting us, flying here from faraway Moscow despite your busy political schedule and covering thousands of kilometres to show us your hospitality.
I would also like to thank our Russian friends for their care and the enormous efforts taken to successfully organise my first visit to Russia. I would like to take this opportunity to send best regards on behalf of all the Koreans to the Russian people who work tirelessly to build a strong and prosperous Russia.
Friends and comrades, I have come to the Russian Federation with the firm intention to carry on Russian-Korean friendship, which has deep historical roots and long-standing traditions, and to give an impetus to the further development of Russian-Korean relations in accordance with our people’s aspirations and the demands of rapidly changing new visions.
I am pleased to note that our important meeting today is a natural result of the friendship between our two countries which has been present for a long time. Despite the long distance between Moscow and Pyongyang, Russia and North Korea are friendly neighbours with a common border along a river. Russian-Korean friendly relations are an invaluable asset to our countries. They have been developing based on historical traditions, shared goals and interests.
The peoples of our countries have been bound by their camaraderie in arms ever since they fought side by side in the great anti-Japanese war in the last century, while the valiant Red Army soldiers and officers did not hesitate when it came to spilling their blood in the name of liberating Korea. Years and centuries go by, but our people remember and will always cherish the memory of the noble deeds of Russia’s sons and daughters, who fought on international detachments and sacrificed their lives for the sacred cause of liberating Korea.
The precious feeling of friendship between our peoples took shape and consolidated as we faced multiple challenges and tests. Accordingly, our peoples strongly believe that consistent efforts to promote North Korea-Russia relations not only serve our common interests, but are critical for ensuring peace and security in the region. Our peoples are eager to bring North Korea-Russia friendly relations to a new, higher level. The people of North Korea have friendly, brotherly feelings toward the people of Russia and are proud to have a great country like Russia as a close neighbour.
Today, I had a frank and meaningful exchange of opinions with President Putin on promoting friendly relations between North Korea and Russia, ensuring peace and security on the Korean Peninsula and in the region, as well as on international matters of mutual interest. The DPRK government and I share the unwavering strategic commitment to consistently promote as well as to strengthen strategic relations and traditional friendship between North Korea and Russia, bringing them to a new level in keeping with the imperatives of our time.
Dear Russian friends,
The brotherly people of Russia supports Mr Putin’s proactive leadership, commitment and strong will, and achieves marvellous success in building a strong and prosperous Russia, while overcoming multiple challenges within and beyond Russia. It is a great joy for us to witness this success, as if it was our own.
I sincerely wish that Russia prosper as a strong, proud and great country under the leadership of President Putin. I raise this toast for the development and prosperity of the great Russian Federation, for the good health of President Putin, for the happiness and wonderful future of the peoples of our countries, and for the health of all comrades and friends who are present here today.
See also
Russian-North Korean talks
April 25, 2019
Geography
Primorye Territory
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
Persons
Kim Jong-un
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: April 25, 2019, 12:00
Text version