Events
Meeting with Council of Legislators
In the run-up to the Day of Russian Parliamentarism, Vladimir Putin met with members of the Council of Legislators. As is customary, the meeting took place at the Tavrichesky (Tauride) Palace in St Petersburg.
April 24, 2019
17:00
St Petersburg
6 of 8
Vladimir Putin met with members of the Council of Legislators.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
As is customary, we are holding this meeting at the Tavrichesky Palace, where Russia’s first State Duma convened. To begin with, I would like to congratulate you and your colleagues from the federal, regional and local legislatures on the occasion of the upcoming commemorative and festive date, the Day of Russian Parliamentarism. As most of you are well aware, the first State Duma convened on April 27 (or May 10), 1906.
I am aware that yesterday and today the Council of Legislators did some meaningful work, holding a substantive discussion on the goals set in the May Executive Order and in the Address to the Federal Assembly. I believe such approaches and work are critically important and effective. Essentially, this is a matter of regularly reviewing the legislative agenda to see how it stacks up with Russia’s socioeconomic development priorities, including specific national programmes, with the involvement of the Government, the Accounts Chamber, the regions and the development institutions.
I expect the Council of Legislators to build its future work in the same way – professionally and with a focus on the specific issues which concern our citizens and are important for the development of the country and, of course, to fully take into account the position and initiatives of the regions and local authorities.
The regions will do the bulk of the work to implement national projects and many other programmes (I have already mentioned this many times, and you know all about it). National goals are achieved here, on the ground. The overall picture of changes by which the people judge the effectiveness of the government and the adopted laws is formed here as well.
So forget the assessments. The result is what matters for us: what can be done, what we should strive for and what we must achieve. We now have good chances to accomplish that. We have never had so many resources to achieve the goals that will allow our country to thrive.
The Council of Legislators, as you yourselves are aware, makes it possible to see any problem from a regional perspective, forecast the effect, the pros and cons of a particular legislative act for various territories of the country, to promptly adjust a particular legal regulation, and to use the best practices of regional governance and rulemaking.
In this regard, I hope that the Council of Legislators will build up its authority and professional clout, relying on its extensive seven years’ experience, and play an increasingly prominent role in the qualitative overhaul of the legal framework underlying Russia’s development. In this way it will help realise the constitutional provisions on federalism and our democratic and law-governed state.
Colleagues, generally speaking, I expect our legislators to do not only systematic and thoughtful, but also more energetic work, and to actively participate in the practical implementation of each national project, as well as to focus on the outcome in the interest of your voters and all our citizens.
Parliamentarians at all levels should strengthen feedback channels with civil society. I am aware that you are doing this already. Nevertheless, while implementing large-scale projects, we need to establish a clear understanding of how this affects practical life, and make some timely adjustments to practical work.
This is extremely important if we want to achieve a positive outcome. It is imperative to be a representative government in the full sense of the word and maintain dialogue with the people. Please be proactive in revising and modernising your ongoing legislative practice and keep up with the times.
Of course, routine procedures and the requirements of legal drafting should be strictly followed. However, this does not hinder but rather requires greater openness and transparency of the legislative process. In this regard, it is imperative to quickly introduce new digital and interactive technology and to keep the information resources of legislative bodies at all levels up to date. This will allow you to make better use of the constructive proposals by our citizens, and the people will be better positioned to more objectively evaluate our work.
When considering in legislatures particularly difficult and complex issues involving more than one sector, it makes sense to involve the expert, scientific and business communities.
For example, you cannot do without it when you are radically reforming oversight activities. I will discuss separately this extremely important, acute and delicate issue. You are aware that beginning January 1, 2021, former, generally outdated, redundant and archaic regulations in this area will become null and void. However, such a large-scale “nullification” should in no case lead to a legal void, legal vacuum or “manholes,” and thus disrupt the work of both oversight bodies and economic agents. Ultimately, this “nullification” should in no case affect the interests of our citizens.
You know how it can be in our country. On the one hand, oversight gets so tough that life becomes unbearable and businesses are stifled by the oversight. On the other hand, as soon as things loosen up, businesses, and we have seen them do so, start doing things that cause damage to consumers. Neither can be allowed. In this regard, the work of representatives is very important, very.
You need to have a good sense of what is happening in real life. You need to talk with people directly, which is more difficult for the executive authorities for a number of reasons. Once a decision is adopted, its implementation starts. Things that are happening on the ground are rather difficult to sense sometimes. However, you can do so by directly communicating with people.
I want to let the parliamentarians and ministers know, and I also want our business associations to get involved in this work. There is not much time left for “taking an inventory,” or auditing the existing regulatory acts governing this sphere. The legislative activities should be properly planned with clearly identified priorities and deadlines.
In addition, please make wider use of parliamentary oversight. I am counting on all the parties and their representatives in legislative assemblies without exception.
By the way, it would be proper to involve in this common work the non-parliamentary parties that are ready for constructive interaction in the interest of developing the country and the regions. The ability to reach agreement and compromise, to arrive at a common decision without fear of discussion or argument is the most important and integral element of parliamentary culture.
Colleagues, in closing I want to thank you and your colleagues for the good and productive work and the high-quality legislative support for the projects implemented in the interests of the citizens of our country, and the ability to make decisions that are sometimes difficult but necessary for the country.
True, and I want to say it again to the Government, the Presidential Executive Office and to you – yes, sometimes you need to make decisions that at first glance seem difficult and are unpopular. But when we explain to the people why we are making a particular decision, what we are striving to achieve, what goals we are trying to achieve when making a particular decision – and all decisions must be made in the interests of citizens in the medium term or more distant future – when we explain this to the people, the sentiment in society completely changes.
When people realise that the government does not exist by itself somewhere up in the sky, but understands what is happening and sees prospects for economic and social advancement and acts towards this end and in the interest of the people, then the voters will think differently about the decisions that you make.
Of course, I want to once again congratulate you and your colleagues, families and friends on the occasion of the upcoming Victory Day. Our duty is to properly prepare for the upcoming 75th anniversary of the end of the Great Patriotic War next year. We can discuss this issue separately. First and foremost, of course, it is about what needs to be done additionally to support our veterans and to preserve the memory of the Great Patriotic War.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 24, 2019, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Ceremony for the first LNG shipment from the Cryogas-Vysotsk plant
During his working trip to St Petersburg, Vladimir Putin, launched via videoconference the loading of the first batch of LNG onto the tanker Coral Anthelia at the new Cryogas-Vysotsk LNG plant in Vysotsk, Leningrad Region.
April 24, 2019
15:30
St Petersburg
1 of 3
Vladimir Putin, launched via videoconference the loading of the first batch of LNG onto the tanker Coral Anthelia at the new Cryogas-Vysotsk LNG plant in Vysotsk, Leningrad Region.
Cryogas-Vysotsk is the third largest Russian LNG plant (the other two are the Sakhalin-2 plant and the Yamal LNG plant). The complex, located at the port of Vysotsk, includes three main facilities: a plant with capacity of 660,000 tonnes of LNG a year, a 43 km long gas pipeline connection to the Leningrad-Vyborg-State Border gas main, and docks for LNG shipments.
The company plans to supply LNG to the domestic market for gas-engine fuel and to provide gas to consumers that are far from centralised gas supply systems. The plant will also supply gas to countries in northern Europe, Scandinavia and the Baltic Region.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Today we are launching the first shipment of LNG at the new Cryogas-Vysotsk plant. I would like to congratulate all those who have been and will be involved in this on this significant event.
First, I would like to thank you for your hard work, for carrying out the plans you set for yourselves. Moreover, all of this has taken place in a short period of time: a modern high-tech plant has been built and quality jobs were created. The first stage of the plant, which has a capacity of 660,000 tonnes of LNG per year, was put into operation in March this year. As I understand it, there are plans to launch the second stage with a capacity of over 1,100,000 tonnes of LNG per year. It is expected to be in operation late next year.
There is no doubt that the plant will have a bright future. The global LNG market is making rapid headway: the demand for LNG is steadily growing both in this country and the rest of the world. I would like to emphasise that Russia will consistently build up its gas liquefying capacities so as to occupy a befitting niche in this market. It would be no exaggeration to say that there are enormous, colossal prospects here. This includes the growth of exports and the use of LNG for fuelling and bunkering operations in the Baltic and other areas. We know well that new international rules aimed at countering the pollution of seas by marine vessels will come in force in 2020. This opens up very good prospects for us.
And, of course, the absolute priority for us is the widespread use of LNG as an engine fuel that is eco-friendly and cost effective at home for supplying remote regions with gas, as well as for the needs of transport, housing and utilities, and more. I hope that federal agencies, regions and domestic businesses will play a very active role in these efforts. They are all represented by our three colleagues here.
In conclusion I would like to thank everyone and congratulate all of you on today’s event – all those who worked to make it happen. I hope that the number of such high-tech production lines in our industry as at Cryogas-Vysotsk will continue to grow.
Naturally, I wish you success and new achievements. Thank you very much.
Go ahead, please.
Chairman of the Management Board of NOVATEK Leonid Mikhelson: Thank you very much!
Mr President, in cooperation with Gazprombank, NOVATEK built the first stage of the complex to produce 660,000 tonnes of LNG per year. We are ready for the first official shipment. Allow me to show you a small clip on the project.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead, please.
(Shows video clip.)
Thank you.
Leonid Mikhelson: The volume of investment in this complex exceeded 57 billion rubles. We attracted only Russian contractors and many Russian equipment manufacturers. Localisation for the first stage was 65–70 percent. Importantly, this is the first time that we, including REP Holding, managed to source refrigerant compressor production here in Russia. As you mentioned, the second stage will reach a capacity of over 1,100,000 tonnes, and I think this stage will include about 90–95 percent localisation.
The production of this complex is oriented towards the Baltic region. It will primarily supply the bunkering and fuelling of ships, fuel for motor transport and gas for residential consumers that are too far from the gas distribution system.
Chairman of the Management Board of Gazprombank Andrei Akimov: Mr President, the launching of this plant in Vysotsk is another impressive testament to the fact that despite everything, the Russian economy in making steady headway and that Russian companies can carry out large-scale, high-tech, and important projects.
Leningrad Region Governor Alexander Drozdenko: Mr President, this is the second major project that we are carrying out in cooperation with NOVATEK and other partners in the Leningrad Region. The first project was implemented in Ust-Luga. The most important point is that considering the Leningrad Region’s newly adopted law on transport tax reductions for vehicles that convert to NGV (natural gas vehicle fuel), we are starting a new programme – a step-by-step conversion of road and city equipment, and public transport to LNG, to natural-gas vehicle fuel.
Leonid Mikhelson: Mr President, the plant is ready to start loading. Will you allow me to start the loading process?
Vladimir Putin: Please do.
Leonid Mikhelson: The loading has been launched.
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Let me congratulate you on this occasion once again.
I am very pleased to note that the Leningrad Region is developing – now I would like to say a few words about this constituent entity – and generally achieving good results. Of course, there are still many challenges but if the regional authorities support the implementation of projects like this, and not just in energy but also in other areas, we will be moving towards the implementation of the national projects I have talked about many times and which have been duly formulated by the Government. We face a lot of work in this respect.
But of course, the development of industry, especially such important, fundamental industries as energy, plays a key role in achieving the goals that we have set for ourselves.
I would like to thank Gazprombank for its support of this project. Naturally, I am referring to the company’s management, engineers, workers and designers – all those who took part in this project. I hope this is not the last time we meet under such circumstances. I know the company has big development plans in various areas. We will support and help you. I hope you will continue working just as actively and producing results.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Leningrad Region
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 24, 2019, 15:30
Text version