Events
Meeting with Acting Governor of Chelyabinsk Region Alexei Teksler
July 19, 2019
21:45
Magnitogorsk, Chelyabinsk Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Acting Governor of Chelyabinsk Region Alexei Teksler.
Vladimir Putin met with Acting Governor of Chelyabinsk Region Alexei Teksler
. They discussed the social and economic situation in the region.
Alexei Teksler has been Acting Governor of Chelyabinsk Region for four months. He cited well-developed industry as one of the region’s strengths. Chelyabinsk Region is home to the Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works and defence industry enterprises. Three large industrial state corporations are actively operating there, as well as the machine building industry; agriculture is also developed.
He noted environmental issues and economic diversification as primary concerns. According to him, the IT field, digital services, robotics, enhanced services including medicine, and tourism have good potential in the region.
The region has major plans in the social sphere, such as building new kindergartens and schools and renovating around 50 old athletic facilities. More funds are being allocated to infrastructure development. Work is ongoing with human resources; a new HR project has been announced, The Chelyabinsk Region Team, to promote young people.
Issues related to holding international events within the SCO
and BRICS
summits were discussed separately.
The President said that due to the larger number of participants in those events, they will be held in two cities: some events will be hosted by Chelyabinsk whereas the summit proper will take place in St Petersburg. The President stressed that the federal funds earmarked for the city’s preparations for the events will not change and will go to the development of the city.
According to Alexei Teksler, most important is that Chelyabinsk will be a venue for the events within Russia’s SCO and BRICS presidencies. There will be about 30 such events including a forum, cultural events and BRICS sports games. The remaining federal funds will be channelled to infrastructure development, which includes roads, new interchanges, municipal improvements, façade renovations, a new airport complex that will meet the highest international standards, and a new airport.
Geography
Chelyabinsk Region
Topics
Industry
Regions
Social services
Persons
Teksler Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2019, 21:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting on flood relief efforts
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on flood relief efforts in Irkutsk Region. Earlier that day, the President inspected the flooded areas from a helicopter and visited a temporary accommodation centre for flood victims.
July 19, 2019
14:45
Bratsk, Irkutsk Region
1 of 6
Meeting on flood relief efforts in Irkutsk Region.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
The subject of today’s meeting is clear, so I will remind you without an unnecessary introduction of the requirements of the Executive Order signed following our meeting: instructions came first, then the Executive Order.
See also
Visit to Irkutsk Region
July 19, 2019
Visit to temporary accommodation centre
July 19, 2019
So, pursuant to the executive order, the flood was declared a federal emergency. For this reason, there were orders to employ the Russian Armed Forces, other troops and military units to provide flood relief in Irkutsk Region.
The Government of the Russian Federation was instructed:
- To allocate federal budget funds for major repairs of partially damaged property and to solve the problem of providing funds from the federal budget for building or purchasing new homes to the people whose residences were deemed uninhabitable as a result of floods in Irkutsk Region.
- To subsidise the Irkutsk regional budget so that it could compensate agricultural producers for the cost of servicing loans and leasing payments, and to provide support in their effort to restore cultivated land.
- To repair damaged roads, bridges, etc. as quickly as possible.
See also
Executive Order on flood relief efforts in the Irkutsk Region
July 3, 2019
- To take exhaustive measures to prevent price increases on basic goods and services.
- To organise social payments and allocate additional funding from the Government’s reserve fund to compensate the federal executive authorities’ costs related to flood relief efforts.
There was also an instruction involving insurance companies.
I want to hear what has been done, and then we will discuss what still needs to be done.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I began with the Executive Order. If it needs to be amended, please compile proposals following today’s meeting.
A 4,000-person task force was set up to work in the affected areas in the region including about a thousand units of heavy equipment. The task force comprises personnel from the Emergencies Ministry, the National Guard, the Defence Ministry and the Interior Ministry. I would like to thank everyone for their efficient work during the operation. I would like to thank the medics and volunteers.
Nevertheless, Mr Levchenko [Irkutsk Region Governor], you were with me in Tulun and heard what the people were saying. And I can say right away, in view of what I was told, that I cannot call the flood relief operation satisfactory.
What do people say? Firstly, a very poor job was done communicating with residents. You heard it yourselves – they do not know where to go, there is no information about what a person is entitled to and what they are not, or where certain certificates can be obtained and documents reissued. Reissuing documents was not organised properly, and many people are still unable to get them.
Our colleagues also said here that people across the country are sympathising, sending support, primarily humanitarian aid. You must have heard today about how the humanitarian aid is distributed. Regrettably, there were instances when it was just thrown into the water. Is this the way work has been organised on the ground? Is this a sort of gratitude to those people who cared about the victims?
They mentioned gardening. We have to decide on the fate of the houses that the people lost there. Please, coordinate it with the federal authorities and submit your proposals. People undoubtedly must be helped; we need to set out the process of how to do it, in what volume and so forth.
There are issues regarding titles to the land plots. Namely, a house is beyond repair, but it was on a plot of land that people used as a vegetable garden. The people are asking what will happen to it. It was their property. Will they be offered compensation, or will the plot be recovered? We must do what the people want. But in order to do that, we must work with the people – go there and ask the people.
Next comes rebuilding housing for large families. We speak a lot about them; we keep saying they need support. In this case, families with many children are also in trouble, and we must make an exception for them and provide them with housing not according to the exact floor area of their previous home but according to the standards and the number of people in the family, the number of children.
Finally, the money. It came from the federal budget, and it came rather quickly. But I was surprised to hear today that some of the victims did not get even the 10,000 ruble lump sum to say nothing about compensation for completely destroyed or partially destroyed housing. What is this? How should I take it? I ask you to urgently sort this out and straighten things out there.
All decisions regarding aid for the flood victims must be acted on as promptly as possible. Apart from routine matters – and they are important matters for the people – we must bear in mind that winter is coming very soon. I have already said and I want to repeat – the work must be done to achieve results, not for reporting purposes. Nobody needs those reports.
The housing, utilities and social infrastructure must be rebuilt promptly. We have to figure out the numbers, of course. I have just heard from the report that 9,068 houses were flooded, but my briefings say 10,890. We must have a clear idea of what we are speaking about. My briefing reports say, “10,890 houses flooded.” Are they in the flood area, or have they been flooded? We must get to the bottom of that, because, in fact, there are real people behind the numbers, their families and lives.
It is important to coordinate the relocation of residents and the construction of social facilities. By the way, when we speak about recovery efforts, one more problem should be addressed that the people have just spoken about. Unfortunately, it often comes up in such situations. I mean the work of evaluation commissions. There are not enough of them; there are apparently too few professionally organised commissions. And most importantly, people do not grasp how their work is organised. Different commission members come one after another, say something and sign something, yet people do not understand what is happening.
I will revisit this. The rebuilding of social facilities should run alongside the rebuilding of housing. The people must be aware that the facilities will be located where they are going to live.
Let me repeat once again: people must have housing before cold weather arrives regardless of whether it is temporary or permanent housing. The residents must be able to use normal roads, hospitals, schools – and it is good that you brought up kindergartens – and if these must be rebuilt rather than repaired, let us do it. Let us provide for that. Mr Mutko [Deputy Prime Minister and Chair of the Government Commission on Flood Relief in Irkutsk Region], I ask you to take note. If additional funds are needed, do the calculations and report.
As agreed, all the children must begin classes on time, in September. If some schools are not repaired by then, we must provide transportation for the children, and it must be done in the most convenient way. I shall come in early September to see how it will have been done.
Next. We have already agreed on this, but I will repeat it anyway – agricultural land has been flooded, and part of the harvest was lost. The Minister has already spoken about that here. We have to make a final assessment of the loss of cattle and crops, as well as losses in private subsidiary plots, and streamline work in this area as soon as possible, including compensation payments. This is a joint task for both the Government and the regional authorities. An instruction has been issued on providing subsidies to Irkutsk Region to assist farmers.
During today’s meeting, some citizens raised the issue of supporting damaged small and medium-sized business, and not only agricultural producers, as I take it. We overlooked that – in both the Executive Order and the resolution, but there are such enterprises. It means we must make amendments to both the executive order and the resolution, and add aid to small and medium-sized businesses damaged by the flooding.
With regard to general matters. Unfortunately, we regularly face floods in Siberia and the Far East. I have already given instructions to research the condition of riverbeds and water facilities in the areas of potential heavy flooding. Such monitoring should be conducted on a permanent basis, which will lower the risk of such disasters and will make it possible to warn people in advance.
I also gave instructions to legally ban housing construction in flood-prone areas. The respective amendments have been made to the Land Code, but the relevant by-laws remain unchanged. The ban is ineffective in practice.
I ask the Government to promptly complete establishing the legal framework in this field and the regions – to speed up work on designating such territories and entering them in the territorial planning documents. I hope our colleagues in the regions will take heed of my instructions today.
By the way, unexpectedly for me, ordinary people today raised a crucial, state-level issue – forests must be better managed not just in the region but also in the whole country. Illegal logging leads to water-logged soil and increases the risks of flooding.
I ask the Government to set up a special commission to monitor the situation in forestry. We will have a more detailed discussion of it at the next meeting of the State Council in view of the significance of the topic.
To conclude. Colleagues and friends, I do not think I will reveal any new truth by saying that the key goal of any authorities, any level of power – be it municipal, regional or federal – is to create decent living conditions for the people, especially if people experience a hardship, as is the case here in the region where we are at present.
In this connection, arrogance and rudeness must be completely erased from all levels of power. Regretfully, people do face it. That is surprising, but it is a reality. I ask all leaders at all levels to bear this in mind and to do everything so that people never see it. On the contrary, people must be treated with care and respect.
Work should be properly organised in all the areas we spoke about today. The task force of the Defence Ministry, the Russian National Guard and the Emergencies Ministry shall remain in the region until further notice. And, as Mr Mutko suggested, a relocation plan should be drafted, I agree with that. It should be drafted in such a way that all facilities are listed with the names of the officials in charge of each group of facilities.
I hope our work today will benefit the people I met today, and there are many more of them in the disaster area. Regardless of all the hurdles we are aware of – I mean the scope of the tasks we are facing and the deadlines for addressing those tasks – we will manage to fulfil all those tasks.
I want to reiterate. I hope the municipal, regional and federal bodies of power will communicate well and properly coordinate their work. The end result of our work will depend on how effective the coordination is.
All the best to you.
Geography
Irkutsk Region
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2019, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Interview with Oliver Stone
Vladimir Putin answered questions from American film director, screenwriter and producer Oliver Stone. The interview was recorded on June 19, 2019 in the Kremlin.
July 19, 2019
22:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 6
Interview with film director Oliver Stone.
Oliver Stone: So, I interviewed Mr Medvedchuk. It was in Monte Carlo. He gave us a very interesting interview. He gave us his view of the Ukraine. I gather that you’re close with him.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I would not say that we are very close but we know each other well. He was President Kuchma’s Chief of Staff, and it was in this capacity at the time that he asked me to take part in the christening of his daughter. According to Russian Orthodox tradition, you can't refuse such a request.
Oliver Stone: Oh, you cannot refuse it?
I thought it was a big honour for you to be the godfather of his daughter.
Vladimir Putin: It is always a great honour to be a godfather.
Oliver Stone: Well, how many children are you godfather to?
Vladimir Putin: I will not give a number but several people.
Oliver Stone: Wow. Is it like a hundred or three hundred?
Vladimir Putin: No, no, are you serious? Certainly not. Just a few.
Oliver Stone: Otherwise I would ask you to be the godfather for my daughter.
Vladimir Putin: Does she want to become an Orthodox Christian?
Oliver Stone: Ok, we’ll make her that.
Vladimir Putin: You have to ask her.
Oliver Stone: As long as she stands in church, right?
Vladimir Putin: Of course. How old is she?
Oliver Stone: She is 22 now.
Vladimir Putin: Is she a believer?
Oliver Stone: Yes, she is a believer. She is raised Christian.
Vladimir Putin: I see.
Oliver Stone: You know, young people in America sometimes, they are different.
Vladimir Putin: Young people are different everywhere.
Oliver Stone: They are spoiled to some degree in the western world.
Vladimir Putin: It depends. The older generation always says that about the younger generation.
Oliver Stone: Yeah, I know, I know. That’s true. But I don’t know what is going on with the American culture. It’s very strange right now.
Vladimir Putin: Is there an American culture?
Oliver Stone: As you know, I’ve been very rebel all my life. Still am. And I have to tell you, I’m shocked by some of the behaviours and the thinking of the new generation. It takes so much for granted. And so much of the argument, so much of the thinking, so much of the newspaper, television commentaries about gender, people identify themselves, and social media, this and that, I’m male, I’m female, I’m transgender, I’m cisgender. It goes on forever, and there is a big fight about who is who. It seems like we miss the bigger point.
Vladimir Putin: They live too well. They have nothing to think about.
Oliver Stone: Yeah, but it’s not a healthy culture.
Vladimir Putin: Well, yes.
Oliver Stone: Years ago when we were talking about homosexuality, you said that in Russia we don’t propagate it.
Vladimir Putin: Not exactly. We have a law banning propaganda among minors.
Oliver Stone: Yes, that’s the one I’m talking about. It seems like maybe that’s a sensible law.
Vladimir Putin: It is aimed at allowing people to reach maturity and then decide who they are and how they want to live. There are no restrictions at all after this.
Oliver Stone: Ok. Mr Medvedchuk proposed recently, you know, a plan for solving the tensions in Ukraine between east and west. You know about this?
Vladimir Putin: To be honest, we do not talk so often. He has more free time than I do. But we meet from time to time, especially in connection with his efforts to get detainees released. He devotes much time to this.
He also told me something about his plans on Donbass but I do not know the details. At any rate, I consider it absolutely correct that he calls for direct dialogue with the people who live in Donbass. There is not a single example in recent history when a crisis was settled without direct contact between the sides to the conflict.
He says he thinks it is necessary to fully implement the Minsk agreements and I cannot help but agree with this as well. So, I know the elements of his proposals. He speaks about them in public and I agree.
Oliver Stone: Ok. They have a new president now. Has anything changed in Ukraine? Or still the same?
Vladimir Putin: Not yet. After all, the recent election was clearly a protest vote. A fairly large number of people supported the newly-elect President in central Ukraine, in the east and the south. And these are all people who sincerely seek a settlement in any event. During his election campaign President Zelensky continuously spoke about his readiness to do everything to solve this crisis. And then literally just yesterday, while in Paris, I think, he said suddenly he does not believe it is possible to hold talks with what he called separatists. This is clearly at odds with what he said during his election campaign.
Oliver Stone: So no change?
Vladimir Putin: Unfortunately, none for the time being.
Oliver Stone: Do you think there’s any revulsion? I mean, you were telling me about Ukraine and Russia. Do you think there is any reason for this hatred of Russia in Ukraine?
Vladimir Putin: You know, our relationship is not easy at the moment. This is the result of the grievous events linked with the coup d’état. The other part of this story is propaganda by the current government in Ukraine, which blames Russia for all the tragic events that ensued.
Oliver Stone: Well, historically, do you see these two countries coming together again?
Vladimir Putin: I think this is inevitable. At any rate, the cultivation of normal, friendly and, even more than friendly, allied relations is inevitable.
Oliver Stone: Yeah. Mr Medvedchuk would be a good liaison.
Vladimir Putin: I believe so. But our positions, our points of view, differ on many things. Mr Medvedchuk was born in the family of a man that was said to be convicted during the Soviet times for nationalist activities. He was born in Siberia, where his family and his father virtually lived in exile.
Oliver Stone: What’s the connection?
Vladimir Putin: Connection between what?
Oliver Stone: All this story to my question?
Vladimir Putin: The connection is that he has his own ideas about Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. For example, I believe that Russians and Ukrainians are actually one people.
Oliver Stone: One people, two nations?
Vladimir Putin: One nation, in fact.
Oliver Stone: You think it is one nation?
Vladimir Putin: Of course. Look, when these lands that are now the core of Ukraine, joined Russia, there were just three regions – Kiev, the Kiev region, northern and southern regions – nobody thought themselves to be anything but Russians, because it was all based on religious affiliation. They were all Orthodox and they considered themselves Russians. They did not want to be part of the Catholic world, where Poland was dragging them.
I understand very well that over the time the identity of this part of Russia crystallized, and people have the right to determine their identity. But later this factor was used to throw into imbalance the Russian Empire. But in fact, this is the same world sharing the same history, same religion, traditions, and a wide range of ties, close family ties among them.
At the same time, if a significant part of people who live in Ukraine today believe that they should emphasise their identity and fight for it, no one in Russia would be against this, including me. But, bearing in mind that we have many things in common, we can use this as our competitive advantage during some form of integration; it is obvious. However, the current government clearly doesn’t want this. I believe that in the end common sense will prevail, and we will finally arrive at the conclusion I have mentioned: rapprochement is inevitable.
Oliver Stone: I don’t think Mr Medvedchuk would agree. He would say: two nations, similar people. That what he would say, take a strong line on that.
Vladimir Putin: He doesn’t. That is what I am saying.
Oliver Stone: That’s what I’m saying. He does not agree.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course. This is what I am saying: our positions on some things, important ones, are different. But at the same time, he speaks in favour of establishing good relations with Russia in order to use these competitive advantages in the economy. He shows how today the Ukrainian economy is completely destroyed because it has lost the Russian market and, most importantly, cooperation in industry. Nobody needs Ukrainian industrial goods on Western markets, and that goes for agriculture too: very few goods are purchased. Round timber is in demand, but soon there will be no timber in Ukraine at all. It’s not like the vast expanses of Siberia.
For example, Europe often takes some steps towards Ukraine – or did so until recently – with, say, permitting purchases of round timber. And this is just one example. In fact, there are many more.
Oliver Stone: Well, someone told me today that Mr Medvedchuk’s party, For Life Party, is up 12 percent in the polls. So he is building a party that has a following, it seems to me.
Vladimir Putin: If so, that is good. To be honest, I don’t know. But if kit is true, that is good.
If so, we can only welcome this because he and his partners in the party stand for restoring relations with Russia. How could we not welcome that? Of course, we welcome it. I have known him for a long time. He keeps his word. If he says something, he does it.
Oliver Stone: So, he is a very courageous man, I think. His villa was bombed, his offices were bombed. He is under threat all the time. He is hanging in there, staying in his country.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, this is true because he has convictions. I mentioned that his father was a Ukrainian nationalist and was convicted by a Soviet court for this. Strange as it may seem but the founders, many founders of Ukrainian nationalism advocated good relations with Russia. They said good relations were necessary for the development of Ukraine itself.
Oliver Stone: When was that?
Vladimir Putin: This was in the 19th century. They came out for Ukraine’s independence but said that Ukraine must preserve good, friendly relations with Russia. Mr Medvedchuk adheres to similar ideas. This is why he has convictions. I may not agree with his position on something but I always respect it.
Oliver Stone: Yeah, two nations he says. When I hear the words “Ukrainian nationalism,” I get worried, because I think of Stepan Bandera and people who have convictions too.
Vladimir Putin: Me, too.
Oliver Stone: Ukrainian nationalism is dangerous too.
Vladimir Putin: In general nationalism is a sign of narrow-mindedness but I do not want to offend Mr Medvedchuk.
Oliver Stone: It’s words.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, but in any event, he is in the category of people who advocate independence, the consolidation of an independent Ukraine, but at the same time believe that it is easier to achieve this by pursuing cooperation with Russia. And I think he is largely right.
Oliver Stone: You’re very clear.
You talked about the coup d’état. Just want to revisit that because there has been a lot more research done. It seems that research has revealed that there were shooters, snipers at the Maidan. The forensics with the angle of shooting, bodies of the police and the protestors. It was all very badly investigated. Not at all really. But what evidence we have seems to point to there being, they say, Georgian shooters, people from Georgia. And I’ve heard that. Have you heard anything more on the Russian front?
Vladimir Putin: No but I know what you are talking about. I know that the authorities headed by President Yanukovych at that time did not use the army and were not interested in giving any excuse to the opposition to use force. And, as Mr Yanukovych told me repeatedly, it did not even occur to him to use force and the military against civilians, even against those who had already taken up arms. I completely rule out that he could have done this, but those who were looking for a pretext to stage a coup could have well done it, of course.
Oliver Stone: I remember you were telling me about the Obama phone call, Obama and you had an agreement that there would be no firing on the last day. And he gave you a promise that he would…
Vladimir Putin: You know, while Obama is no longer President, there are certain things we do not discuss in public. At any rate, I can say that the US did not follow through on the agreements that we reached during this phone call. I will stop there without going into detail.
Oliver Stone: Yes. So recently, you know Russia has been obviously accused and accused over and over again of interference in the 2016 election. As far as I know there is no proof, it has not turned up. But now in the US there has been an investigation going on about Ukraine’s interference in the election. It seems that it was a very confusing situation, and Poroshenko seems to have been very strongly pro-Clinton, anti-Trump.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, this is no secret.
Oliver Stone: Do you think there was interference?
Vladimir Putin: I do not think that this could be interpreted as interference by Ukraine. But it is perfectly obvious that Ukrainian oligarchs gave money to Trump’s opponents. I do not know whether they did this by themselves or with the knowledge of the authorities.
Oliver Stone: Where they giving information to the Clinton campaign?
Vladimir Putin: I do not know. I am being honest. I will not speak about what I do not know. I have enough problems of my own. They assumed Mrs Clinton would win and did everything to show loyalty to the future US administration. That is nothing special. They wanted the future President to have a good opinion of them. This is why they allowed themselves to make unflattering statements about Trump and supported the Democrats in every possible way. This is no secret at all. They acted almost in public.
Oliver Stone: You do not want to go any further on that because you do not have any information?
Vladimir Putin: You know, this would be inappropriate on my part. If I said something more specific, I would have to put some documents, some papers on the table.
Oliver Stone: You understand that it has huge implications because Mr Trump would be very grateful?
Vladimir Putin: I did not interfere then, I do not want to interfere now, and I am not going to interfere in the future.
Oliver Stone: But that is a noble motive. Unfortunately, the world has degenerated in these two years, with all this backbiting and accusations, dirty fighting. Anyway…
Vladimir Putin: There are no rules at all. It is no holds barred.
Oliver Stone: Well, you have rules. You say no interference.
Vladimir Putin: I have principles.
Oliver Stone: Ok. But you seem to have rules based on those principles.
Vladimir Putin: Well, yes.
Oliver Stone: Ok. Well, you are fighting with one hand tied behind your back.
Vladimir Putin: Why? You mean, because of these principles?
Oliver Stone: Yes. If you knew something about the election, it would tilt the balance in a very weird way.
Vladimir Putin: I think this is simply unrealistic. I have said so many times.
Oliver Stone: What is unrealistic?
Vladimir Putin: To change anything. If you want to return to US elections again – look, it is a huge country, a huge nation with its own problems, with its own views on what is good and what is bad, and with an understanding that in the past few years, say ten years, nothing has changed for the better for the middle class despite the enormous growth of prosperity for the ruling class and the wealthy. This is a fact that Trump’s election team understood. He understood this himself and made the most of it.
No matter what our bloggers – or whoever’s job it is to comment on the internet – might say about the situation in the US, this could not have played a decisive role. It is sheer nonsense. But our sympathies were with him because he said he wanted to restore normal relations with Russia. What is bad about that? Of course, we can only welcome this position.
Oliver Stone: Apparently, it excited the Clinton people a lot. The Clinton campaign accumulated the “Steele dossier.” They paid for it. It came from strange sources, the whole “Steele dossier” issue. Some of it comes from Ukraine. They also went out of their way, it seems to me, with the CIA, with Mr Brennan, John Brennan, and with Clapper, James Clapper, and Comey of the FBI. They all seem to have gotten involved, all intelligence agencies, in an anti-Trump way.
Vladimir Putin: They had levers inside the government, but there is nothing like that here. They applied administrative pressure. It always gives an advantage in countries such as the USA, some countries of Western Europe, about 2 percent on average, at a minimum.
Oliver Stone: Two percent? What are you talking about?
Vladimir Putin: Yes. According to experts, those with administrative pressure they can apply always have a 2 percent edge. You can look at it differently. Some experts believe that in different countries, it can vary, but in countries such as the United States, some European countries, the advantage is 2 percent. This is what experts say, they can be wrong.
Oliver Stone: I do not know. I heard of the one percent, but it seems to get more like 12 percent.
Vladimir Putin: That is possible, depending on how it is used.
Oliver Stone: Well, you are not disagreeing. You are saying that it was quite possible that there was an attempt to prevent Donald Trump from coming into office with a soft, I will call it a soft coup d’état?
Vladimir Putin: In the USA?
Oliver Stone: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: It is still going on.
Oliver Stone: A coup d’état is planned by people who have power inside.
Vladimir Putin: No, I do not mean that. I mean lack of respect for the will of the voters. I think it was unprecedented in the history of the United States.
Oliver Stone: What was unprecedented?
Vladimir Putin: It was the first time the losing side does not want to admit defeat and does not respect the will of the voters.
Oliver Stone: I would disagree. I would say it happened in 2000, that the Republicans lost the popular vote, they lost Florida, and they did not accept that, and they had a coup d’état in their way, a soft coup d’état also. And they put Bush in.
Vladimir Putin: But this was a court decision, as far as I remember.
Oliver Stone: Yeah, in a way, but the court decision was blocked. There was a vote going on. And if you remember the Brooks brothers’ riot, all those Republicans rushed to electoral offices in Miami, and they prevented the vote from going through in a county, in one of those major counties. It was a key factor. It was not like the Russian revolution. It was a minor event, but it was big. It shifted the momentum, totally. I remember that night. Then they referred it to the Supreme Court. Also, and the same thing in January 2017, when the intelligence assessment was released, what was it, January 7th,, a few days before Trump was to be inaugurated, the intelligence assessment actually said that the intelligence agencies suspected Trump would have been colluding with Russia. That is even bigger. That is an attempt at a coup d’état, because the electors in America still had the right to overturn the election vote.
Vladimir Putin: This is what they call unscrupulous application of administrative pressure.
Oliver Stone: Ok, ok, ok. Well, listen, it seems to be going on a lot more than we know. Talking about America and Russia, I have not seen you since the Kerch Strait. Any comments on that?
Vladimir Putin: No, I do not, as we have repeatedly said. The former President, Mr Poroshenko, staged this provocation intentionally during the election campaign. He was aware that people in the country’s east and south would not vote for him, and he used this provocation to escalate the situation and then declare a state of emergency there. I have reason to believe that he was going to declare a state of emergency in the entire country, and possibly to postpone the election as a result. Generally speaking, he was trying to hold on to power at all costs, and he was seeking any means to execute this plan. This was the regime’s death throes.
As far as I remember, recently the newly appointed Chief of the Ukrainian army’s General Staff has made a statement that offers roughly the same interpretation of events but perhaps using milder language.
Oliver Stone: Who gave that interpretation?
Vladimir Putin: Chief of the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
Oliver Stone: Ok, but beyond Poroshenko, the United States has a shadow here. The United States knows what he is doing, and supported it.
Vladimir Putin: Absolutely.
Oliver Stone: It is the creation of a strategy of tension that worries me enormously. I have seen this happen in so many places now. I think I read on Monday, the Russian bombers, the Russian SU-57 escorted, what was it, the B-52 bomber, a nuclear bomber, US bomber, close to the Russian borders.
Vladimir Putin: The Su-57 aircraft are just entering service. This is a fifth-generation jet fighter. It was the Su-27 that was mentioned.
Oliver Stone: Do you think that is normal?
Vladimir Putin: Actually, it is sad, probably, but this is common practice. US aircraft did not enter our airspace, and our aircraft did not conduct any high-risk maneuvers.
But generally speaking, this is not great. Just look where the Baltic or Black seas are located, and where the USA is. It was not us who approached US borders, but US aircraft that approached ours. Such practices had better stop.
Oliver Stone: In this continuing strategy of tension, there was a report in The New York Times last week that the Obama Administration, before they left office, put in what they call a cyber warfare device. It was inserted in Russian infrastructure in January 2017.
Vladimir Putin: This is being discussed almost openly. It was said Russia would be punished for interfering in the election campaign. We do not see anything extraordinary or unexpected here. This should be followed closely. That is the first thing.
The second is I believe that we only need to negotiate how we are to live in this high-tech world and develop uniform rules and means of monitoring each other’s actions. We have repeatedly proposed holding talks on this subject to come to some binding agreement.
Oliver Stone: Continuing that theme of strategy of tension, how is Russia affected by the US-Iranian confrontation?
Vladimir Putin: This worries us because this is happening near our borders. This may destabilize the situation around Iran, affect some countries with which we have very close relations, causing additional refugee flows on a large scale plus substantially damage the world economy as well as the global energy sector. All this is extremely disturbing. Therefore we would welcome any improvement when it comes to relations between the US and Iran. A simple escalation of tension will not be advantageous for anyone. It seems to me that this is also the case with the US. One might think that there are only benefits here, but there will be setbacks as well. The positive and negative factors have to be calculated.
Oliver Stone: Yeah. Scary.
Vladimir Putin: No, this is not scary.
Oliver Stone: You sound very depressed, much more depressed than last time.
Vladimir Putin: Last time the situation concerning Iran was not like this. Last time nobody said anything about getting into our energy and other networks. Last time the developments were more positive.
Oliver Stone: The situation is worse now?
Vladimir Putin: Take North Korea, they have also rolled back a bit. Trade wars are unfolding.
Oliver Stone: Venezuela.
Vladimir Putin: Venezuela as well. In other words, regrettably, the situation has not improved, so there is nothing special to be happy about. On the other hand, we feel confident. We have no problems.
Oliver Stone: Well, you are an optimist, and always have been?
Vladimir Putin: Exactly.
Oliver Stone: You are a peacemaker.
Vladimir Putin: Absolutely spot on.
Oliver Stone: So obviously, you have to get together with the Americans, and the Chinese, and the Iranians. I know.
Vladimir Putin: Just do not put the blame on us. Lately no matter what is happening, we always get the blame.
Oliver Stone: Well, the irony is that Mr Trump came to office promising that he was not going to interfere in other countries. He made this overall strategy, he was against the wars that we have started, and ever since he has been in office, it has got worse. Why, one wonders? Is he in charge, or are other people pushing these agendas?
Vladimir Putin: I think he is against this now, too. But life is complicated and diverse. To make the right decision it is necessary to fight for what you believe in.
Oliver Stone: Yeah, conviction.
It is your fourth term, are you getting tired?
Vladimir Putin: No, if I had been tired, I would not have run for the fourth term.
Oliver Stone: Ok. Listen, can I find out something? Let’s take a pause. I just want to ask my director if he wants to ask any more things about Ukraine. Five minutes?
Vladimir Putin: The director always has the final word; after all, he is the one calling the shots.
Oliver Stone: Thank you.
I think we are fine.
Vladimir Putin: Very well. Are we done?
Thank you so much.
Oliver Stone: Thank you, sir.
Vladimir Putin: Are you going back to the States?
Oliver Stone: I am very worried about you.
Vladimir Putin: Why?
Oliver Stone:I can see there are so many problems. It weighs you down. It is sad to see. It is a tough situation.
Vladimir Putin: It is all right. We have seen worse.
Oliver Stone: Russian bombes in Syria. What has happened to Skripal? Where is he?
Vladimir Putin: I have no idea. He is a spy, after all. He is always in hiding.
Oliver Stone: They say he was going to come back to Russia. He had some information.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I have been told that he wants to make a written request to come back.
Oliver Stone: He knew still and he wanted to come back. He had information that he could give to the world press here in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: I doubt it. He has broken the ranks already. What kind of information can he possess?
Oliver Stone: Who poisoned him? They say English secret services did not want Sergei Skripal to come back to Russia?
Vladimir Putin: To be honest, I do not quite believe this. I do not believe this is the case.
Oliver Stone: Makes sense. You do not agree with me?
Vladimir Putin: If they had wanted to poison him, they would have done so.
Oliver Stone: Ok, that makes sense. I don’t know. Who did then?
Vladimir Putin: After all, this is not a hard thing to do in today’s world. In fact, a fraction of a milligram would have been enough to do the job. And if they had him in their hands, there was nothing complicated about it. No, this does not make sense. Maybe they just wanted to provoke a scandal.
Oliver Stone: I think it is more complicated. You know, you think I am much too much of a conspiracy guy.
Vladimir Putin: I do not believe this.
Oliver Stone: I have seen things. I do.
Vladimir Putin: You should not. Take care of yourself.
Oliver Stone: Can we get a picture?
Remark: This is a great honour for us. Can we take a picture with you?
Vladimir Putin: With pleasure.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2019, 22:00
Text version