Events
Meeting with Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in Brasilia.
November 13, 2019
20:40
Brasilia
2 of 5
With Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Prime Minister, friends,
I am very happy to meet with you again.
Mr Prime Minister, this is our fourth meeting this year. I am very happy about this frequency and would like to note that all agreements reached at our previous meetings are being carried out, including those made during the September summit in Vladivostok. Major bilateral projects are being implemented, military-technical ties are growing stronger, and our humanitarian exchanges are expanding.
I would like to note that in 2018 our trade increased by over 17 percent. Importantly, we are not falling off the pace this year; we are maintaining these dynamics.
We continue to closely coordinate our efforts in the international arena, working together at the UN, the SCO, the G20 and BRICS. Mr Prime Minister, I am looking forward to our meeting in Moscow next May when we will celebrate the 75th anniversary of our Victory in World War II, in the Great Patriotic War.
I am very happy to see you, Mr Prime Minister.
Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi (retranslated): Thank you very much.
I am happy that we have the opportunity to meet again and again. Both at bilateral and global meetings we can talk about everything in detail, about many important issues.
You recently invited me to the Eastern Economic Forum, and it made a very good impression on me. I am glad that everything we talked about is being implemented very well. Our oil minister and defence minister were there, and many issues were discussed in detail. Therefore, I believe that our development is moving forward very quickly.
You invited me to Victory Day celebrations in May [2020]. I am glad and look forward to meeting with you again. In addition, in the near future, we will have more different reasons for meeting, and we will have the opportunity to discuss different topics.
<…>
See also
Visit to Brazil. BRICS Summit
November 13 − 14, 2019
Geography
Brazil
India
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Persons
Modi Narendra
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2019, 20:40
Text version