Events
Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board meeting
A meeting of the Supervisory Board of the autonomous non-profit Agency for Strategic Initiatives to Promote New Projects took place under the chairmanship of Vladimir Putin.
January 15, 2019
15:40
Moscow
5 of 8
Meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives.
The agenda includes results of the ASI’s work in 2018 as well as new projects that the organisation intends to carry out in 2019–2021. These include support for the urban communities and their leaders that suggest solutions for topical problems of urban development, creation of a digital platform for dealing with entrepreneurs and systemic measures on developing technological business in the country.
Before the meeting, the President toured an exhibition of projects by the Agency for Strategic Initiatives (ASI) and learned more about the collaborative work centres – ASI “boiling points.”
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, here at the Supervisory Board meeting, we will discuss the Agency’s strategy for the future. But first of all, I would like to say – I have already said this and would like to repeat it again: not only am I not ashamed of this project, but when I learn about the results of the work, what is being done and what is planned for the future (we will discuss this separately), I feel happy and want to wish you success in the future. It evokes the pleasant feeling of pride in you.
First I would like to say a few words about the ASI activities for over seven years.
There are obvious and visible results. This is the improvement of the legal foundation and conditions for business – this is what I would start with.
Second is the support for over 350 specific projects that involve jobs, advanced products and technology. We learned about some of them today.
See also
Tour of ASI projects exhibition
January 15, 2019
And finally these are voluntary, educational and social initiatives that are also very interesting, promising and very useful.
Obviously, the Agency has elaborated a unique mechanism for resolving problems and, most importantly, has united around it a whole community of people ready to generate and promote positive changes. These are entrepreneurs, innovators, volunteers, representatives of non-profit organisations and scientists. I was pleased to look at some of the projects that are literally brought about by science, fundamental science, which happens very rarely and is therefore a source of special pleasure. The infrastructure is being created for their interaction, which is very important and this is also one of the projects that we saw today. The Leaders Club is actively working.
The so-called “boiling points” are already open in 19 cities. This is where the best ideas are concentrated, talented and energetic people are united, and civic and business projects aimed at the country’s development as a whole are being planned and launched.
It is also important to note that cooperation with the Government and regional administrations has been developed. This makes it possible to support and promote key initiatives more effectively and faster.
And, of course, I would like to make special mention of the professionalism of the Agency’s personnel. You are united by a common desire to achieve practical results for the benefit of our people, our citizens and the country as a whole. Thank you very much for this.
Friends,
I am discussing the advantages and overall potential in such great detail because even more difficult tasks lie ahead. I would very much like to see your work fit into the national development strategy and what we call our national projects; to be honest, this has been true for the previous seven years, but is now becoming particularly important. This should fit in naturally and help accomplish tasks that have been set in these strategic long-term areas.
In this connection, the Agency’s strategy should be closely linked with our plans within the framework of national projects. Their success will directly depend on the active involvement of real leaders of change. Therefore, the Agency should, naturally, continue to work for these people and with such people who strive to implement these large-scale and ambitious plans.
We need to create additional opportunities, so that these people will be able to carry out their concepts and plans. I repeat, and I want to return to this subject: I had the pleasure of personally speaking with some of them today.
In this connection, I would like to note the first area of our work. We need to continue implementing the National Business Initiative, to compile investment climate rankings for the Russian Federation’s regions and to create a permanent mechanism for improving the nationwide business environment.
You and I understand that a good idea is one thing, and if it catches on somewhere. But it is another thing to implement it all over the country. However, we would obtain the desired full effect only if we manage to accomplish this.
This also means that the state and authorities at all levels should be able to quickly respond to the requests and problems of entrepreneurs; this should be done virtually online. Modern digital technologies make it possible to effectively do this already today.
Second. By launching the WorldSkills movement and setting up a network of Quantorium technology parks in Russia, you have provided a strong stimulus for changes in supplementary and vocational education – an extremely important area of our activities.
I believe it is necessary as part of the National Technological Initiative to start a mechanism enabling the widest possible dissemination of knowledge and competences that would be in demand not only today but in the future, ten or maybe at least twenty years ahead.
By the way, one of the projects that we saw, that I have just mentioned, is designed precisely for such work.
This is critical for the development of the digital economy, for a breakthrough in science and technology as well as the further lifting of barriers for researchers and developers of cutting-edge technologies. And of course it is very important to create conditions for those who are working on startups.
Third. The Agency for Strategic Initiatives has set a volunteering standard that is included in the UN report as one of the best practices. You also participated in drafting the law on volunteer activities and supported significant projects in the social field.
Actually, we took many major decisions together at a meeting with volunteers and non-profit organisations in Petrozavodsk in summer 2017.
It is essential to continue this work, to form an efficient legal framework for palliative care and the organisation of long-term care for severely ill patients, for the elderly, to expand possibilities for the activity of NGOs in preschool and supplementary education and children’s recreation.
Fourth. Assistance should be rendered to the business people who take on the responsibility of providing public services and utilities, preserving historical heritage, arranging public spaces, leisure, sports and tourism. That is, those who are ready to help solve the most important national issues and create comfortable and up-to-date environments in cities and towns. As you know, this is also a most important area of our activity in the short term as part of the national initiatives.
To underscore, in all the areas that we mentioned today the best practices and approaches need to be summed up and actively shared. We do have them, what we only need is to circulate them persistently and put them into practice. To this end, we need to influence what is happening in the regions in a constructive and substantial way, as before. For this, of course, I would repeat, we need interaction with the administrative teams in Russian regions. Our shared success will greatly depend on your coordinated work.
Let us discuss all these issues.
<…>
Topics
Social services
Persons
Chupsheva Svetlana
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 15, 2019, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Russia-Zimbabwe talks
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with President of the Republic of Zimbabwe Emmerson Mnangagwa, who is in Moscow on an official visit.
January 15, 2019
17:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 9
Meeting with President of the Republic of Zimbabwe Emmerson Mnangagwa.
During the talks, the participants discussed matters pertaining to promoting bilateral relations and current international and regional issues.
Following the consultations, an exchange of documents signed during the official visit of the President of Zimbabwe to Russia took place in the presence of the leaders of the two countries.
The signed documents included an agreement between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Zimbabwe on extradition and an intergovernmental agreement on mutual protection of intellectual activity results and intellectual property protection in the course of bilateral military-technical cooperation.
The signed documents also concern cooperation in the sphere of countering the legalisation (money laundering) of criminally obtained proceeds and the financing of terrorism, the project for developing the Darwendale platinum group metal deposit and the supply of fertilisers to African markets.
* * *
Beginning of talks with President of the Republic of Zimbabwe Emmerson Mnangagwa
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
I am pleased to see you here in Moscow.
This is your first visit to our country. Zimbabwe is an important partner to Russia in Africa. We are very pleased to see you.
Most recently, you won a landslide election victory. The people of your country are expecting effective performance, that goes without saying. For our part, we are ready to do our best to make sure that cooperation between our countries is beneficial for our nations and that it makes a significant and weighty contribution to implementing the plans and programmes that you have formulated for yourself and to achieving the goals that you have set for your country.
Welcome, Mr President.
President of the Republic of Zimbabwe Emmerson Mnangagwa
: Thank you, Your Excellency, Mr President.
On my own behalf and on behalf of my delegation, we are extremely happy to be invited to visit the Russian Federation. And it is my first occasion to be here, and I feel greatly honoured by Your Excellency to allow me to visit you in this time of development and the challenges facing my country that I wish to discuss with Your Excellency.
There are two areas of significant importance for me to address, the historical and the political signs that there is a very long history of cooperation between Zimbabwe and your great country, from the time of armed struggle, when most of my officers and military trained here in the past, and you supported us materially in our liberation struggle. That political history transcended until we got our independence and has continued, but today, Your Excellency, I would wish that we now attend to deepening economic cooperation between our countries, and our country is developing – it is a third-world country – so that you, as a senior brother, can hold my hand as I try to develop Zimbabwe.
Your Excellency, when we last met in Johannesburg at the BRICS summit, we did not have much opportunity to exchange views on our respective relations, but I believe this is an opportunity that is given to me to articulate the challenges that my country is facing. Zimbabwe has been suffering from sanctions imposed by the West for nearly two decades, and we are now doing our best to reengage after the new disposition has come into effect; and during our days of isolation, you stood by us.
Your Excellency, I have come with many issues I would want to discuss with Your Excellency, in particular, in the area of economic cooperation, because the area of political relations is solid and is very historical.
And I have a team of my officers here that I believe will be able to articulate the issues that I have brought for us to share.
Thank you, Your Excellency.
<…>
Geography
Zimbabwe
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Mnangagwa Emmerson
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 15, 2019, 17:50
Text version