Events
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials and defence industry top executives
The President opened a series of meetings on the current state and development prospects of the Russian Navy.
December 2, 2019
14:15
Sochi
3 of 8
Meeting with senior officials of the Defence Ministry and top executives of defence industry enterprises on the development of the Russian Navy.
As per tradition, the President holds consultations with senior officials of the Defence Ministry and top executives of defence industry enterprises twice a year.
This year, the format of the meetings is slightly different. Now each series of the meetings focuses on a specific branch or corps of the military. The new format also envisages visiting of respective military units and defence industry enterprises jointly with the Defence Ministry senior officials.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues and friends.
Today we are opening our traditional, 14th series of Sochi meetings on developing military capability and fine-tuning approaches to upgrading the Armed Forces, including with modern weapons and equipment. Therefore, today we have both senior officials of the Defence Ministry and our colleagues from the defence industry present.
Before anything else, I would like to note that, as a follow-up to the previous meetings in this format, several hundred instructions have been given. In my opinion, it is not the number of instructions that is important but the way they are executed. Overall, the quality of execution is satisfactory. Seventy percent of the instructions are fulfilled while the others are at various stages of completion. And this is very important because it indicates that these biannual meetings in Sochi are necessary and rather efficient.
Why? Because we know that, should something remain unaccomplished, six months later the responsible parties will have to explain why not and what needs to be done to iron out the situation.
This time, during the current series of meetings, we will consider mostly the issues related to the development of the Navy. We will discuss in detail its condition and trends in the further enhancement of its combat potential; we will listen to reports by the heads of the shipbuilding industry on how modern ships and vessels are being developed.
Historically, the Navy plays a very important role in ensuring our country’s defence capability, defends Russia’s interests in the World Ocean, and makes a hefty contribution to the preservation of military-political stability.
Nowadays, advanced ships armed with powerful state-of-the-art missiles that have improved characteristics in terms of accuracy and destruction range come into service with the Navy. This effective armament can radically change the situation on the theatres of operations and neutralise any aggressive actions against Russia.
The Navy has confirmed its high combat potential in the fight against terrorists in Syria, and I would like to note once again the smoothness of teamwork and coordination between the Navy’s units and task forces, as well as the professionalism of those involved in the operation, the supervisor personnel, sailors and naval aviators.
Today, a Russian naval task group is permanently deployed in the eastern Mediterranean off the Syrian coast and there is our on-shore naval base at the port of Tartus.
I would also like to note that this year, Russian naval ships successfully pursued objectives assigned to them in the Arctic, Atlantic, Indian and Pacific oceans, including in order to protect shipping and oppose piracy in the South China Sea, in the area of the Gulf of Aden, the Strait of Malacca, the Singapore Strait, and in the Caribbean. A total of 111 cruises have been performed, involving 70 surface ships and 27 support ships, as well as 15 multi-purpose submarines.
The Oceanic Shield 2019 exercise has been held at a high level, an exercise that for the first time involved naval aircraft from all the four fleets. The Northern Fleet carried out a unique tactical exercise in the Arctic, during which marines practiced over-the-beach landings on the coast and islands in the Arctic Ocean. Combat ships have drilled operations to protect maritime economic activity on the Arctic shelf.
We must continue to develop a modern, high-tech and well-balanced Navy and to provide it with state-of-the-art weapons and equipment.
Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the following high-priority goals.
First, it is important to retain the current pace of the Navy’s development. For this purpose, we need to ensure the coordinated work of state and military administrative agencies and the country’s industrial and research sectors.
Second, it is necessary to expand the Navy’s combat capabilities in the next few years. This largely depends on the scheduled adoption of upgraded frigates and submarines that can launch Zircon hypersonic missiles (these weapons are becoming crucial for maintaining strategic stability), as well as destroyers and multirole amphibious warfare ships. Today, I will ask you to report in detail about the work on new ships and their weapons systems.
And, third, the consistent development of the Navy should not be confined to the military organisation’s framework, and we have already discussed this many times with industry representatives.
Naval research and development projects are a driving force in scientific aspects and economic sectors all over the world. And we need to see to it that advanced military technologies and innovations facilitate the manufacture of popular civilian goods, and that defence industry companies and shipyards expand their range and production volumes.
I believe that we have a lot to discuss here because entire sectors and companies have accomplished a lot in some areas, and it appears that we need to create additional incentives in other sectors.
Let’s start working.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 2, 2019, 14:15
Text versionEvents
Russian gas exports to China launched via the eastern route
Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping participated in the launch ceremony of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline, via teleconference.
December 2, 2019
12:30
Sochi
3 of 11
With Energy Minister Alexander Novak during the launch of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline.
In May 2014, Gazprom signed a 30-year agreement with the China National Petroleum Corporation to supply Russian gas to China via the eastern route. The Power of Siberia gas pipeline has a capacity to deliver 38 billion cubic metres a year.
Natural gas will be delivered from the Chayandinskoye field in Yakutia and the Kovyktinskoye field in the Irkutsk Region. The 3,000-kilometre-long pipeline passes through the Irkutsk Region, the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) and the Amur Region.
Other Russian representatives at the official ceremony included Dmitry Kozak
, Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Russian part of the Russian-Chinese Intergovernmental Commission on Energy Cooperation, Energy Minister Alexander Novak
and Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
who joined the event from the Atamanskaya compressor station in the Amur Region.
* * *
Ceremony for launching the Power of Siberia gas pipeline
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Nihau, good afternoon, hello.
Mr President Xi Jinping
, my friend, colleagues, friends,
Today is a special day and a truly historic event, not only for the global energy market, but primarily for you and me – for Russia and China.
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations, and this year we begin supplying Russian pipeline gas to China. This step takes Russian-Chinese strategic energy cooperation to a qualitatively new level, and brings us closer to the goal we set with President of China Xi Jinping to increase bilateral trade to $200 billion by 2024.
I would like to note that the supply contract our countries signed in 2014 was the largest agreement in the history of the domestic gas industry. The Power of Siberia gas pipeline will deliver more than a trillion cubic metres of natural gas to China over 30 years.
This contract kick-started an unprecedented high-tech project in eastern Russia – a new gas production centre was developed from scratch in severe climatic conditions in Yakutia.
We are developing the Chayandinskoye project, a unique gas field in terms of reserves. The pipeline is under construction and will eventually stretch across some 3,000 kilometres of Russia.
For our country, for Russia, this project is important not just for export but also because it will deliver gas to the Amur Gas Processing Plant, which will become one of the most powerful in the world.
All the necessary facilities are ready to supply gas eastward – both on the Russian side and the Chinese.
I sincerely thank the engineers, the builders, all the employees of Gazprom, China National Petroleum Corporation and contractor companies for their high professionalism and excellent work, which was completed ahead of schedule.
I wish you all further success and all the best.
President of China Xi Jinping (retranslated): Mr President, guests, colleagues, builders of the eastern section of the China-Russia gas pipeline,
I am very pleased to attend, with President Putin, the ceremony for launching the eastern section of the China-Russia gas pipeline.
On behalf of the Government and the people of China, I would like to warmly congratulate you on this event and express my heartfelt greetings and gratitude to the oil and gas industry workers of the two countries.
This year marked the 70th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations between China and Russia. President Putin and I have spoken about progress in China-Russia relations, and our comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation, which are entering a new era. We agreed that promoting China-Russia relations will remain our countries’ foreign policy priorities. We will steadily work to expand strategic interaction and cooperation in a variety of areas.
The eastern section of the Russian-Chinese gas pipeline is a seminal project of bilateral energy cooperation and serves as an example of the deep integration and mutually beneficial cooperation between our countries.
In May 2014, President Putin and I attended the ceremony for signing the gas purchase and sale agreement in Shanghai. The construction companies from the two countries have worked closely in the past five years.
While working in subzero temperatures and severe climatic conditions and overcoming enormous difficulties, our workers, engineers and oil workers completed the construction project with a high level of quality and showed the entire world the high level of skills and positive results of our cooperation. Launching the gas pipeline is an important interim accomplishment and the beginning of a new phase in our interaction.
I would like to say a few words about management and maintenance requirements for the pipeline.
The first priority is security and maintenance safety.
The second priority is environmental friendliness. We must give special attention to the environment and resource savings in the interests of green, pollution-free, energy efficient and low-carbon development.
The third priority is the socioeconomic effect. The Chinese-Russian gas pipeline should facilitate the socioeconomic development of the regions across which it runs.
The fourth priority is stronger friendship. We must coordinate the interests of our countries even closer in the spirit of mutual understanding and advantage.
China and Russia are at a crucial stage in their national development, and our relations are entering a new phase as well. I hope that our countries will continue working to create even more landmark projects like the Chinese-Russian gas pipeline in the interests of our countries and to the benefit of our peoples.
Mr Putin, thank you. We are grateful to all of you.
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller: President Putin, President Xi Jinping,
I am standing here with some of the Gazprom employees who helped build the Power of Siberia gas pipeline. We are in the control room of the Atamanaskaya Compressor Station on the Russian-Chinese border.
This 128 MW compressor station will provide the necessary pressure for pumping gas into the gas transport system in the People’s Republic of China.
The Power of Siberia is one of Gazprom’s largest projects. Nearly 10,000 people and 4,500 vehicles were used to build the pipeline, which took 130,000 pipe sections of differing diameters weighing over 1.8 million tonnes welded together with over 260,000 joints. We have built over 10 bridges across large rivers and over 100 crossings over small rivers and marshes. Both the people and the equipment have pulled through.
The first phase of the Power of Siberia project involved laying 2,160 kilometres of pipe from the Chayandinskoye field to the Chinese border. The second phase includes 804 kilometres of gas pipeline to the Kovyktinskoye field.
Production drilling is in full swing at Kovyktinskoye field today. The total length of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline will be almost 3,000 kilometres.
Today we will begin supplying gas from Chayandinskoye field, a unique gas field in terms of its reserves. It contains about 1.2 trillion cubic metres of natural gas, and it is the base for the Yakutia gas production centre.
About 10,000 people and 5,000 different machines worked at Chayandinskoye in difficult climatic conditions: in winter, the temperature dropped below 50 degrees Celsius. Despite all the difficulties, construction progressed quickly.
As many as 192 wells have been drilled at Chayandinskoye and a comprehensive gas processing unit has been built. The Yakutia gas production centre is now up and running.
Now I will give the floor to Igor Krutikov, Director-General of Gazprom Dobycha Noyabrsk, who will report on the gas supply to the Power of Siberia gas pipeline.
Igor Krutikov: President Putin, President Xi Jinping, Mr Miller,
I am at the comprehensive gas processing unit at the Chayandinskoye field, a key facility in the project’s industrial infrastructure, built by thousands of people from all over Russia.
In just a few years, a gas production and processing plant has been built in the taiga, and pressure booster units have been built. This will allow us to ensure reliable supplies to the Power of Siberia gas pipeline.
We’ve met all the deadlines. Right now, the operational staff is at the site. Gas is being supplied to the main gas pipeline as it should.
Alexei Miller: The Power of Siberia pipeline has been filled with the gas from the Chayandinskoye field and is now under pressure. Gazprom is ready to open the gas supply to the People’s Republic of China.
CNPC Director Wang Jiuling (retranslated): President Xi Jinping, President Vladimir Putin, guests, friends.
Construction of the eastern section of the China-Russia gas pipeline is a major strategic project initiated personally by President Xi and President Putin and carried out with their direct support.
On May 21, 2014 in Shanghai, in the presence of President Xi and President Putin, a memorandum of understanding was signed on gas supplies via the eastern route including the respective purchase and sale agreement. Today, at this historic moment, the leaders of the two states are participating in the launch of the gas pipeline and gas supply.
This event inspires and reinvigorates us, the many workers in the oil and gas industry. Construction of the eastern section of the China-Russia gas pipeline was our priority. Under the firm leadership of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, workers of the China National Petroleum Corporation, in keeping with the best traditions of Daqing oil workers, demonstrated unbending will, tenacity and team spirit, finished the construction on schedule and to a high standard and prepared the Heihe-Changli section for operation.
This was the first project to use pipes with an extra-large diameter (1,422 mm), high-level durability (X80) and high pressure (12 MPa). The project used full localisation, from essential equipment to automatic control systems. For the first time, construction of this mainline, which is the world’s largest, has involved full automation for welding and ultrasonic diagnostics.
Today we are launching the northern section of the pipeline, which will allow us to import 5 billion cubic metres of natural gas over the first year. Once the central and southern sections have been put in operation, we will increase the capacity to 38 billion cubic metres a year, thus securing gas distribution to several regions in China, up to Shanghai.
The eastern section of the China-Russia gas pipeline is a major project implemented on behalf of the heads of state. It reflects the tireless quest of the two countries’ companies and citizens to develop and use environmentally safe energy sources and to preserve the environment.
We will continue to focus on safety and environmental standards, and to improve the efficiency of operational control in the interests of the safe and steady operation of the pipeline. In close contact with our Russian partners, we will ensure steady and consistent penetration of the gas market.
We are willing to further deepen cooperation with Russia in the oil and gas sector, which is an important component of Chinese-Russian relations, our comprehensive partnership and strategic interaction which are entering a new era, and promote the socioeconomic development of the two countries and the friendship between our peoples. The China National Petroleum Corporation is ready to receive natural gas from Russia.
Alexei Miller: President Putin, President Xi Jinping,
The control room at the Atamanskaya Compressor Station controls the linear valve for feeding gas into the gas transport system of the People’s Republic of China.
Mr President, may I have your permission to give the command to open the linear valve?
Vladimir Putin: Permission granted. Go ahead.
Alexei Miller: Open the linear valve.
Igor Krutikov: The linear valve on the border with the People’s Republic of China is now open. Gas supply has begun.
Alexei Miller: President Putin, President Xi Jinping,
The valve is open, and gas is now entering the gas transport system of the People’s Republic of China.
Wang Jiuling: President Xi Jinping, we are ready to receive Russian natural gas. May I have your permission to receive the gas?
Xi Jinping: Go ahead.
Wang Jiuling: Thank you, President Xi Jinping and President Putin. The ceremony for commissioning the gas pipeline from Russia to China along the eastern route is now complete.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Congratulations!
Xi Jinping: Thank you very much.
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 2, 2019, 12:30
Text version