Events
International Congress of Supreme Audit Institutions
Vladimir Putin delivered a speech at the INTOSAI Congress (XXIII INCOSAI), which is underway at the Manezh Exhibition Hall on September 23–28.
September 25, 2019
14:00
Moscow
The International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) was established in 1953 to promote cooperation between national supreme audit institutions and to improve government audit around the world.
The current membership includes 194 full members. The supreme body is the congress, which convenes once every three years in different countries.
This year the INTOSAI Congress (XXIII INCOSAI) is being held in Moscow under two themes: Information Technologies for the Development of Public Administration, and The Role of Supreme Audit Institutions in the Achievement of National Priorities and Goals.
The congress is being attended by over 600 delegates representing 168 audit institutions. During the congress, the powers of INTOSAI President and Chairman of the INTOSAI Governing Board will be handed over to Chairman of Russia’s Accounts Chamber Alexei Kudrin
for the next three years.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues,
I am delighted to welcome all of you to Moscow and the 23rd Congress of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions.
This is the first time that Russia hosts the main forum of this representative and highly respected international organisation. First of all, I would like to say that it is very important for us that our consistent efforts to improve the system of external public auditing have been highly appreciated by our international partners.
The Congress traditionally attracts interest from around the world. Attending this Congress in Moscow are over 600 delegates from 168 countries, or rather, as your colleague, Mr Kudrin, has just told me, they are from 169 countries, including top audit officials from 128 countries.
I would like to note that we did our best to create the best possible conditions for a fruitful, free and meaningful discussion at your congress. As far as I know, it has practically started. Moreover, your discussion will go well beyond strictly professional subjects and will have truly system-wide significance.
Cooperation, interaction and exchange of experience between national external audit agencies is one of the key steps leading to confidence building, predictability in the global economy and finance, and the basis for our joint work to overcome structural problems, promote economic growth, improve people's well-being, and protect the environment – all the priority areas identified by the United Nations as its Sustainable Development Goals.
These steps are consonant with our long-term plans. Like many other countries, Russia is implementing major projects – on a grand scale without exaggeration – concerning the economy and the social sphere, the environment and technological progress. These national projects are primarily aimed at achieving fundamental, tangible changes in the quality of life of our citizens.
We are focusing on addressing these problems and concentrating significant resources on them, integrating the efforts of the state, the regions and municipalities, businesses and individual citizens into the national projects and programmes, combining all this together to achieve a common goal.
To achieve truly breakthrough results, we need constant feedback, and a comprehensive and objective vision of the entire picture, to be able to see where changes work, and where, unfortunately, they do not, just like everywhere else in the world. We identify the best management decisions to be replicated, as well as the lingering risks of inefficiency, corruption and stagnation. And we make decisions how to deal with them. How the invested resources work and how that investment pays off; how to best manage these resources to achieve the results that people expect from us; how to identify this specific aspect of our work – these are our tasks.
A huge role in building the full picture, in the ongoing testing of reforms, of the entire state and budgetary economy, is played by public control, by parliamentary control. And, of course, it is your job as representatives of the country’s supreme financial control bodies – you have a huge role to play in achieving our common goals – by your status, you are called upon to promote fair and responsible public administration aimed at ensuring sustainable development of society and raising living standards to a decent level.
In this connection, I would like to note the substantial and top-quality work of your colleagues from the Accounts Chamber of Russia, their striving to be guided by strict, principled and unbiased standards in evaluating the efficiency of budgetary spending and investment, overall state administration, as well as readiness to provide society and individuals with more transparent and accessible information.
I support the striving of the Accounts Chamber’s top managers to expose and record problems and to augment financial audits with a comprehensive analysis of national projects and investment programmes and an assessment of how their specific content and practical measures meet the challenges currently facing the entire world and Russia, how they help boost the entire country’s competitiveness and improve each person’s living standards and expand his or her capabilities. This is all the more topical because top state audit agencies use this conceptual, proactive and targeted approach more often all over the world. I would like to note that we see this as a highly important and interesting experience.
We hope very much that here in Russia you will take part in discussions on professional issues, on current matters, and that we will become involved in your joint work during these discussions, and draw useful conclusions for ourselves.
I repeat, it goes without saying that well-thought-out, precise and realistic recommendations of the Accounts Chamber, namely, your colleagues from the Accounts Chamber of Russia, on how to adjust and fine-tune the current economic and social policy are in high demand. We agreed on this with the Accounts Chamber’s leadership while launching the work of new members of this state agency. I know that our colleagues from the Government and Russian regions are also ready for such cooperation.
This is what I would like to add. The pace of modern life, rapid technological changes and the ambitious tasks of our countries are setting new standards in all areas, including for the quality and instruments of audit. Today this is also an area of innovations, search for solutions and experiments.
The decision to change the work of your Congress to the paperless format is an indicative example. In this case, all documents and working materials are published on the website, on the internet and become accessible not only to the participants of this professional process but to the broadest range of experts and the public.
We see how rapidly the amount of information is growing in the economy, finance, social and other areas. Obviously, those who will be able to process quickly and precisely these quantities of data, will be able to find the optimal, the best solutions for government management at all levels and target them to the requirements of specific people. I know that you are also going to hold a substantive discussion on the development of audit in the digital and artificial intelligence era.
On a par with new technological opportunities it is necessary to ensure the continuous growth of the professional skills and competences of auditors. Needless to say, such meetings as the current one and exchange of experience are much in demand in this respect.
To develop this theme, I would like to return to the idea that I expressed at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum this year. I am referring to the formation of an open international databank with the best practices, successful cases and development projects in the economic, social, demographic, budget and state and municipal management fields. I would like to invite the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and the countries you represent to join this initiative.
Friends,
You have a busy, meaningful schedule for the next few days. I am sure that your Congress will become an important step towards promoting international ties and will facilitate constructive relations between countries which are based on the resolution of common tasks. These are the goals Russia sets for itself for the next three years, as we take over presidency in your authoritative organisation. We are open to dialogue and expansion of partnership.
Let me wish you successful and productive work and also very good impressions from your stay in Russia’s capital of Moscow. Thank you for your attention. I wish you all the best.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 25, 2019, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Talks with President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro
Vladimir Putin held talks in the Kremlin with President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro, who is in Russia on a working visit.
September 25, 2019
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 6
Russian-Venezuelan talks.
Vladimir Putin and Nicolas Maduro
discussed important current aspects of bilateral relations, as well as key international and regional topics, including in the context of the difficult situation in Venezuela.
From the Russian side, the meeting was attended by First Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov
, Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov
, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov and Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues, friends,
I am happy to have the opportunity to meet with you today in Moscow, at the Moscow Kremlin. I am glad to be able to continue our direct personal contacts.
At the beginning of the conversation, I would like to note that our relations are developing steadily. First of all, I would like to say a few words about economic aspects. Bilateral trade has grown 10 percent in recent months. It is satisfying to note that to a large extent, the growth is due to mutual supplies, including agricultural produce.
We believe it is very important, given the difficult situation in Venezuela because of external pressure. So I think this part can be viewed as a kind of humanitarian cooperation, because these products are essential to the people’s well-being and their immediate food needs.
Another important area is medicine, including the supply of Russian pharmaceutical products to Venezuela. In the near future, we plan to supply 1.5 million doses of the influenza vaccine. We could supply up to five million on a permanent basis.
We are also implementing our major projects, primarily those in the energy sector. In all, Russia has invested about $4 billion in the Venezuelan economy.
I would also like to note our military and military-technical cooperation. First of all, this is linked with Russia’s obligations to service the Russian-made equipment purchased by Venezuela in the past. Components are delivered, and service centres are established on time and in strict compliance with our agreements.
Of course, we also cooperate actively on the international arena. You know that Russia consistently supports all legitimate institutions of state authority, including the institution of the President and Parliament. We certainly support dialogue that you, Mr President, and your Government conduct with the opposition forces. We consider any refusal to maintain dialogue as something irrational, detrimental to the country and jeopardising the well-being of the Venezuelan people. We always support legitimate institutions of state authority. We are very happy to see you in Russia.
President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro (retranslated): I am very happy to be here, in Russia, once again. I believe that we can jointly cope with any difficulties.
We support our cooperation in all areas. Members of the Venezuelan-Russian high-level commission met this past May, and many matters discussed at its meeting were successfully resolved. This includes a number of areas, such as food supplies, healthcare, energy and many others.
That is why our meeting today is very important. We can review this year’s achievements and see what problems remain, what realities we are facing, how the situation is developing in a number of areas, and we can chart future plans.
We always feel very comfortable in Moscow, and we are always happy to be here.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Venezuela
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Maduro Nicolas
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 25, 2019, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China Li Zhanshu
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with Li Zhanshu, a member of the Standing Committee of the CPC Central Committee and Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China.
September 25, 2019
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 7
Meeting with Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China Li Zhanshu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade Li Zhanshu, friends,
I wholeheartedly welcome you to Moscow.
This is your first visit to Russia in your new capacity. We have met many times before, but this is the first time you have come to Russia as Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China.
I am delighted that the new head of the Chinese Parliament is a person who understands Russian-Chinese relations very well and who has always supported the development of our strategic partnership.
I would like to say in this connection that the state visit by President Xi Jinping to Russia last summer has shown once again that Russian-Chinese relations are a positive example of international and bilateral cooperation.
It is for a reason that we describe our relationship as a strategic partnership. This is because we are operating within the framework of international law but primarily in the interests of our nations. We implement all the plans and reach all the goals we set for ourselves, sometimes ahead of schedule. I am referring to the economy, our humanitarian ties, military cooperation and interaction on the international stage.
As you know, we also maintain strong ties between our parliaments. The leaders of the National People’s Congress of China regularly meet with the speakers of the two houses of the Russian Parliament, the Federation Council and the State Duma. I know that your agenda includes talks with Ms Matviyenko and Mr Volodin. Our public organisations and the Russia-China Friendship Committee are working to capacity. Our humanitarian ties, namely cultural and student exchanges are progressing.
Cooperation between our regions is growing rapidly. The governors of Chinese provinces and Russian regions have developed solid relations between their regions and continue to strengthen them. These relations have become a major part of interstate cooperation.
We are delighted to see you. Welcome to Russia. At the beginning of our conversation, I would like to ask you to convey best regards to our friend, President of China Xi Jinping. I hope to see him soon at international venues, just as we agreed to do.
Thank you very much.
Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China Li Zhanshu (retranslated): Mr President,
I know that you as a head of state have a very busy schedule. I know this very well. Yet you have found the time to meet with me immediately upon my arrival. I am deeply grateful to you for this. First of all, I would like to convey to you, our dear friend, the best regards from your good friend, President Xi Jinping
.
This year we marked the 70th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations between China and Russia. President Xi Jinping, Premier Li Keqiang and I have all visited your country in a matter of four months. This is evidence of the special nature and importance of Chinese-Russian relations. Over this period in time our relations have reached an unprecedentedly high level. This became possible above all thanks to the strategic leadership and personal efforts of our leaders.
President Xi Jinping and you are great politicians and strategists, who think broadly and globally. The all-round development of Chinese-Russian relations is benefitting our nations and contributing to global development and cooperation on the planet as a whole.
In June this year, President Xi Jinping made a successful visit to Russia, during which you adopted a joint decision to promote the Chinese-Russian relations of comprehensive strategic partnership in the new era. It marked a major stage in the development of Chinese-Russian relations.
Our relations in the new age are very eventful. First of all, we intend to provide strategic assistance and support to each other and to promote mutual integration based on innovation, mutual benefit and mutual advantage. In attaining this goal, it is important for us to rely on the strategic leadership of our heads of state. It is the key factor in our relations.
President Xi Jinping and you are great, forward-looking and energetic leaders with a strong sense of duty. You not only devote all your time and efforts to the good of our nations but have also assumed responsibility for peace on earth. You have very good business relations and a personal friendship. This is very important politically.
We should promote our mutual political trust and strategic interaction to an even higher level. China and Russia have set an example of good relations between great powers and neighbours.
We have many common interests. Practice has shown that our friendship and cooperation are sincere and reliable. The United States has adopted a policy of dual containment of China and Russia and has attempted to drive a wedge between us. But we have seen through that ploy, and we have not fallen into that trap. The main reason for that is that our relations rest on a solid foundation of mutual trust.
We will continue to strengthen our mutual trust, and we will respect each other’s will to pursue our own development path and to uphold our vital national interests when it comes to sovereignty, security and development.
Of course, we should promote our economic cooperation to an even higher level, as you have said. This is true not only regarding the economy, but also science and technology, innovations, cultural exchanges and interregional cooperation.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 25, 2019, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a regular meeting with Government members.
September 25, 2019
17:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 9
Meeting with Government members.
Additional measures to speed up economic growth and increase household incomes were the main topic. Several current issues were also discussed.
At the beginning of the meeting, Minister of Construction and Housing and Utilities Vladimir Yakushev
and Minister of Energy Alexander Novak
delivered reports on readiness for the heating season. After that, Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets
and Head of the Federal Tourism Agency Zarina Doguzova reported on the results of the tourist season. Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin
and Minister of Economic Development Maxim Oreshkin
made reports on the main theme of the meeting.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with Government members
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Let’s begin with several current issues. First, of course, is getting the housing and utilities sector ready for the heating season. I know that, unfortunately, there have already been shortcuts and problems in several regions.
But before that, I would like to remind you – and I will ask Mr Yakushev (Minister of Construction and Housing and Utilities) to talk about the utilities in a minute – about my latest trip to the flooded districts (Do you remember? Mr Mutko [Deputy Prime Minister, Chairman of the State Commission on Flood Relief Efforts in the Irkutsk Region] remembers this), this is about the various requests from people, 117 requests total, which is a lot.
At that time, I asked my colleagues – Mr Mutko, Mr Yakushev and the Irkutsk Region governor – to take their share of requests and fulfil them. I know from my experience that once focus on this is lost, interest in fulfilling these requests also evaporates. I would like to point out that they not only have to be reviewed but also resolved.
Just yesterday I talked with Mr Menyailo, the Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Siberian Federal District, and as you might recall, we agreed that he would review and monitor this. Soon the Executive Office will set a meeting, and I will ask everyone to report what has been done on each request. Agreed?
<…>
Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister,
Indeed, this year the tourist season picked up the pace: the number of tourists since the beginning of the year has reached 54 million, which is 10 percent more than last year.
We have been implementing a federal programme for the systematic support of tourism, and we know by now which support measures were the most effective. Improvements in transport accessibility and large infrastructure projects have the biggest effect on the number of tourists. The opening of new destinations depends above all on the given area’s attractiveness for tourists.
Last year we opened the Crimean Bridge, and this year 3.3 million tourists have travelled across it. More tourists are using it every day. This is why we offer new routes for those who travel in Crimea by car, including The Golden Ring of the Bosporan Kingdom and the Imperial Route. In other words, we give people an opportunity to gain an insight into the history and culture of Crimea.
Another issue concerns new destinations and services. This year we have opened 45 new subsidised flights to the most popular tourist destinations, as well as 869 additional rail trips. I would like to say a few words about rail trips. Russian Railways is working so smoothly and quickly responds to even the slightest changes in tourists’ preferences, offering double-decker trains, and this helps attract tourists.
The Golden Ring [in central Russia] has been seriously upgraded. We have introduced a new destination called The Silver Necklace. We have connected Petrozavodsk with Veliky Novgorod and Veliky Novgorod with Kaliningrad, which gives people from around the country an opportunity to see a new culture and new historical landmarks. We see the demand for such trips growing every month.
The hotel business is another important component of the tourism industry development. Working within the framework of the state programme, we pinpoint the regions that should be given priority attention and help them to develop infrastructure. Private companies are building hotels there. The number of hotels has increased by 11 percent over the past year, which translates into 246,000 new beds. The class of hotels varies from simple camping projects to luxury hotels for sophisticated clients. We see that business is ready to invest serious money in tourist destinations.
Amenities play an important role in attracting tourists. The number of beaches that have all the amenities at Crimean resorts has increased 1.7 times compared with 2014 and reached 455 against 261.
It is also very important to organise large festivals and events, which means event tourism. New events are held every year. In the summer, we host about 300 events at major tourist destinations, such as the festival in Chersonesus, the festival of Russian opera in Astrakhan, the Ruskeala festival in Karelia, the Far East festival, the Trans-Siberian art festival, the Hero and Time film festival in the Stavropol Territory, and the Gorky fest in Nizhny Novgorod attract big audiences of the admirers of Russian art.
A lot of tourists also attend sporting events, such as Volga Swim – an open water race; a run along the Golden Ring that was attended by 40,000 this year; or the international polar Ultramarathon. We plan these events to support tourists’ interest in visiting historical or natural sites in the summer.
On September 20, the Russian Government approved the new Tourism Development Strategy, which envisages eight main measures for the development of tourism in Russia. They include economic measures, such as interest rate subsidies and subsidised air tickets as well as the establishment of priority development areas and special measures to promote certain routes, simplify visa requirements and train modern specialists.
But there is another topic we focus on separately: the support of children’s tourism. The programme to support children’s tourism is working in test mode. It has been launched in 12 Russian regions. Children living in these regions can travel along specially developed routes, such as My Russia – the City of Peter the Great, Far East Frontiers, Lermontov Sites, and several others. We hope that special attention will be paid to this strategy, and children’s tourism will receive special support.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Our main subject concerns additional measures to speed up economic growth and increase household incomes. This is quite understandable because economic growth is not an end in itself, and the final result, namely, higher incomes, is more important.
In this connection, I would like to recall that we have already agreed on certain specific measures in this direction. To be more precise, the wages of social sector workers and those of some other categories of employees, not covered by the relevant May executive order, should be indexed by 4.3 percent from October 1.
The minimum wage is to increase by 850 rubles or 7.5 percent from January 1, 2020, reaching 12,130 rubles per month.
The old-age pensions of retirees are to be indexed by 6.6 percent from January 1.
The number of families receiving benefits for their first and second babies should also increase from January 1. As we have agreed, the number of these families should increase from 45.7 percent to 68 percent. Moreover, families will receive this money and these payments until their children turn three. I hope that this measure will prove effective.
And now a few words about raising service pay and pensions of retired officers. The pay to service personnel and persons having the same status are to be indexed from October 1, and overall the pensions of retired officers are to increase by 6.3 percent.
I would like our colleagues to report on the extent to which the Government is prepared for the implementation of these measures.
(After that, Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin reported on this subject. While commenting on the report, First Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov noted that the draft budget, reviewed by the Government last week, contained the required funding for fulfilling the presidential instructions. The required funding for raising pensions and benefits meets the specific amounts under national legislation).
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I would like to say a few words before we listen to the Minister of Economic Development. The Government has made a socioeconomic development forecast until 2024 and drafted the federal budget based on that forecast. The forecast says that in 2021, the growth of GDP should exceed three percent. That is – above the global average, as our goal was.
But to achieve this, it is quite obvious that we will need to make a breakthrough in fixed investment. Its growth needs to more than double, from the current two percent to five percent as early as next year. This is a challenge and, I would even say, an ambitious task, which is quite difficult to implement.
But we – I am primarily referring now to my colleagues from the Government’s economic bloc – constantly discuss these things, including with the Central Bank’s leadership, on a regular basis at least, and are jointly searching for the best ways to achieve this goal – to ensure economic growth and achieve a rise in people’s incomes on that basis.
I asked you back in July, if I remember rightly, to prepare the corresponding proposals. I hope to hear about these proposals today, formulated as practical steps for implementation, so that we can close this discussion and state what the Government plans to do so that this goal is unconditionally attained.
Go ahead please.
Minister of Economic Development Maxim Oreshkin: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister,
If you look at the latest statistics, it suggests that there was some revival in growth rates to about 1.6–1.7 percent at the beginning of the third quarter, but as you said, firstly, these are ambitious tasks, and secondly, there are risks of an economic slowdown in the next 12 months instead of acceleration. It is clear that there are factors beyond our control.
This year global economic growth dropped to its lowest level last seen during the crisis year of 2009. This indicator is expected to come in at slightly above 2.5 percent. However, one of the key problems we are currently facing is the short-term decline in lending within our banking system. A slowdown of the consumer lending segment is without a doubt a trend headed in the right direction, since it curbs the increase in household debt and could help prevent a major collapse in the future, but at the same time we are witnessing a major slowdown in other segments of the lending market. For example, mortgage portfolio growth decelerated over the past 12 months: in February this portfolio was equal to 1.3 trillion rubles, but as of the end of August it stood at 1.1 trillion rubles. Let me reiterate that all this is taking place against the backdrop of a slowdown in other types of lending.
In July and August, we had a number of meetings with you, as you have mentioned, and there was much debate at these meetings on the future inflationary trends. We can now see that inflation will be below four percent in early October already, which is a target indicator. The inflation rate is expected to decelerate to about 3.6 percent in 2019, and below three percent in the first quarter of next year. This decline exceeds the expectations that I mentioned in July 2019.
Vladimir Putin: This is understandable, to a certain extent. After all, we all know about the monetary overhang that was created by deficiencies in implementing the national projects, while the Central Bank tampered with the macroeconomic indicators a little bit in anticipation of the 700 billion rubles. As a result, inflation is below the target indicators.
Maxim Oreshkin: The situation is not exactly what it seems to be. Let me explain why.
Vladimir Putin: I know. I heard your discussions. Sorry for interrupting you. Please, continue.
Maxim Oreshkin: Speaking of budget spending, it is mostly the capital spending curves that have shifted to the right. They are the ones that have the least effect on short-term inflation. All current spending is on schedule, and the overall spending is increasing. For this reason, in terms of operating expenses and consumer demand, all budget allocations were made as required.
It is true that there is a certain overhang. This is a problem, but let me reiterate that in our opinion this factor has a very limited impact on inflation. In any case, by the end of this year, the money will be working within the economy, and all these trends will have been accounted for by early 2020.
Vladimir Putin: I have only one request for the Prime Minister: I ask you to oversee this, Mr Medvedev. I mean, if an industry is not ready for the next step, there is no use showering it with money. We need to inject as much money into the economy as would work effectively and not simply lead to price hikes.
Maxim Oreshkin: This actually concerns only short-term growth problems – until the end of this year or the first six months of the next. It is clear that the three percent target cannot be achieved without supplementing the short-term policy with a number of structural long-term measures. These measures are actually contained in the plan that we have just submitted. You instructed the Government to draft a plan before October 15. We sent this version back in early September. Now we are in the active phase of coordinating it with our colleagues from the Central Bank and from the Presidential Executive Office.
I would now like to talk about the key areas that I consider the most important from the perspective of long-term economic growth.
The first block concerns intensifying investments at the regional level. Here we propose a smart profit tax reduction for companies that are investing actively.
How will it work? We have already introduced the concept of investment incentive in the Tax Code, which means that a company that invests can pay less profit tax during the period of investment, when the fixed assets are put on its balance.
The authority to do this lies with the regional governments. But the regions, for obvious reasons, are not too eager to introduce the tax privilege because at the first stage – one or two years – it will reduce the regional revenue and raise the budget deficit. Furthermore, the Finance Ministry might not allow this due to the inter-budgetary agreements signed.
Secondly, the regions are reluctant to take this short-term risk fearing they will not be able to survive the lower revenue period. And when income from new projects begins to flow in, other regional heads might be at the helm to reap the benefits.
Another example of funding reduction in the past few years is infrastructure investment in the regions. Yes, we do have a comprehensive plan for the trunk infrastructure and national projects on safe and high-quality roads that are currently building investment in targeted major projects and in the road system in the country in general. But, obviously the demand for additional investment in infrastructure remains very high in the regions. Both these measures increase the regional budgets’ deficit. So, it’s absolutely necessary to assist them with federal resources.
We met with Mr Medvedev yesterday and discussed possible options. Now we are in the final stage of discussing specific sources and ways to fund these programmes.
We consider it essential to increase this regional investment, especially in the first half of next year, so as not to slow economic growth rates, and to lay a long-term foundation for increasing them. You mentioned an increase in investment to 5 percent next year and we must increase it to 7 percent in 2021. This means that we must act now and draft these investment programmes.
The second package of measures is aimed at restoring the trust of entrepreneurs in the government. There are four key sections in this package.
The first important task is to reform oversight activities. As you know, we have established deadlines for carrying out this reform in 2021. We will adopt harsh regulations and new legislation that will transfer all oversight activities to a risk-oriented approach. However, some specific steps are already being taken. In early September Mr Medvedev spoke about the pilot project of cancelling acts that were adopted in the Soviet period. They must be revised in the next four months and replaced with more up-to-date laws. This is a very important task.
The second track involves pilot projects in individual industries.
In public food service, my colleagues and I have written a White Paper that contains a set of requirements – important safety standards, but no redundant requirements – as we and the business representatives see it. We are now planning a simplified supervision procedure for the industry. Food service for children was specifically excluded from the procedure as a particularly dangerous and risky segment. This leaves regular food service. The new procedure will be tested in pilot mode in Moscow, Kazan and Kaliningrad. At the beginning of next year, if these regulations are deemed successful, it can be extended to the rest of the country.
A separate area is to reduce administrative barriers. The Government has drafted an action plan to change the business climate this year. They will remove a large number of administrative barriers in different industries and different areas. One of the results of this is that we expect Russia to continue improving its position on the World Bank's Doing Business ranking this year.
The third track is to create a predictable regulatory environment. The Government is now in the final phase of working on two bills: one guaranteeing a stable regulatory environment and part of the tax requirements for enterprises that make investments; the other describing clear principles for setting rates. These two things are extremely important for an entrepreneur planning investment projects to have an understanding of how the situation will develop with regulations and rates in the medium term.
The fourth, very important track has to do with restoring entrepreneurs’ trust in law enforcement and the courts. I have said this at previous meetings and I will repeat it: without reversing this trend – which, unfortunately, has been negative in the last few years according to business surveys – it will be very difficult to get a positive result on all investment activity.
The third package of measures concerns the provision of funding for investment. At this point, we are referring to the need to introduce new instruments for long-term savings for the public as soon as possible. The Finance Ministry has announced a programme on guaranteed retirement products that is very important.
We are referring to the creation of new mechanisms for collective investment in order to accumulate the resources of major stock holders in our raw material and other companies in special funds that invest in other sectors of the economy. This must be convenient and allow them to receive the same profits that are gained by foreign investors using RDIF to invest in projects in Russia.
Accelerated introduction of the best accessible technology is an important area that can step up investment activities in raw material and metallurgical companies. There is gradual progress here, but again, this is something that can produce a specific result, notably, an increase in investment activity.
At the meeting of the Military-Industrial Commission on Thursday we discussed the need to create conditions for investment in the defence industry companies, meaning issues related to debts. The introduction of a tax incentive for companies in this sector could create an additional resource. With profits of about 200 billion, 40 billion could be released for additional investment.
In general, the plan consists of eight sections. We have discussed some of them, such as the digitization of labour relations, additional measures to reduce structural unemployment, issues of proactive migration policy, foreign economic policy and the implementation of the vital technological agenda. We must emphasise the items that will produce the maximum effect on economic dynamics – the programmes of introducing artificial intelligence and robotization. There are also issues related to the need to increase the effectiveness of natural monopolies and sectoral programmes with yet another list of measures. Let me repeat that we are now in the process of approving these. We have a deadline you set – October 15 but the plan is already at a fairly advanced stage.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: At the Commission on the military-industrial complex we spoke about the profitability of the defence industry companies. We must return to this issue. Mr Medvedev, I would like to ask you to engage in this as well.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev: All right.
Vladimir Putin: If we do not resolve this issue we will continually create problems related to the debt of these plants. This is the problem.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 25, 2019, 17:00
Text version