Events
Gala evening to mark Alexandra Pakhmutova’s 90th birthday anniversary
Vladimir Putin attended a gala evening at the Bolshoi Theatre marking the 90th birthday of Soviet composer, National Artist of the USSR, winner of USSR and Russia State Prizes Alexandra Pakhmutova.
November 10, 2019
17:00
Moscow
2 of 10
Vladimir Putin wishes a happy 90th birthday to National Artist of the USSR, winner of state prizes of the USSR and Russia composer Alexandra Pakhmutova. Photo: RIA Novosti
The President wished Alexandra Pakhmutova a happy birthday and told her that he had signed an Executive Order awarding her with the top state decoration, the Order of St Andrew the Apostle.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear Ms Pakhmutova,
Allow me to sincerely, from the bottom of my heart, wish you a very happy birthday.
I would like to thank you for everything you did for our country and for our people. This is no exaggeration: Many generations of our citizens live their lives with your music.
I know that you compose different kinds of music – for symphony orchestras, music for ballets and choir music. However, the music you wrote for songs is most widely known among our people and it penetrates our very souls.
Why does it move us all so much? Because, though it has its own author – you, it is truly people’s music. I was wondering how you manage to do this. I have a feeling that you get to capture souls with you talented warm hands, look into them and take out the most important thing. And what is the most important thing? It is love. Love of Fatherland, of Motherland, love for your beloved ones, family, children, love for your profession, of the cause a person serves. This is why the music moves people so much; it enchants them with its impeccable pattern, its profoundness and warmth.
Throughout all your life you have been engaged in public activities, but I know from your own words that your primary public activities were the so called patronage concerts – for the military, company workers and students. And why? It is again your direct involvement with people.
Dear Ms Pakhmutova, let me inform you that I have signed an Executive Order awarding the highest order of our country – the Order of St Andrew the Apostle. I hope I will have the honour and pleasure to present it to you at a ceremony in the Moscow Kremlin, as it should be awarded.
Dear Ms Pakhmutova, it is certainly your birthday today, and you should be the centre of attention. But I must say a few words about the man who has been by your side and shared everything with you, including your creative work – Nikolai Dobronravov.
We have a tradition in Russia not to give early birthday wishes, Mr Dobronravov, and I don’t mean to break this rule. However, I know that your birthday is coming soon, in 12 days if I am not mistaken. You are just one year older.
But I know how much you mean to one another, and your creative potential has been used in the best possible way for our country. Everything you do together, what Ms Pakhmutova does, is undoubtedly our national treasure and honor to Russia.
Allow me to wish you all the very best, family happiness, wellbeing and health.
Thank you very much.
Alexandra Pakhmutova: Thank you.
Mr President,
Thank you very much for such words of praise, for the kind words you have said to me, for the high award I am to receive. St Andrew the Apostle was a great man, a great martyr and it is a great honour for me to receive this award.
I want to wish you happiness, health, very strong health, because we have great people, we have a great country, and things are not always easy for us. It is my hope that all the good, uplifting and kind things that you wish to do for country come true, and I wish you happiness and good health.
Thank you very much.
See also
Greetings to Alexandra Pakhmutova on her 90th birthday
November 9, 2019
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2019, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Gala evening marking Interior Ministry Personnel Day
Vladimir Putin congratulated current and former personnel of the Russian Federation Interior Ministry on their professional holiday at a gala evening in the State Kremlin Palace.
November 10, 2019
18:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers, veterans,
I want to congratulate you on your professional holiday – Interior Ministry Personnel Day.
Today we are honouring those who dedicated their lives to a difficult and demanding service, who protect the rights and safety of our citizens, stand on guard to protect the state, public order and law and who are ready to quickly and efficiently fulfil the most difficult task regardless of the risk.
About 500 personnel have been awarded state decorations this year. Among them are your comrades who stood loyal to their duty till the end, they did not falter and died fighting for Russia, for our people. They will always be among our ranks, serving as an example of valour and loyalty to the oath.
The image of the Interior Ministry and people’s trust in it are determined exactly by such reliable, courageous people of character who possess a solid moral core, who truly believe in the power of law and justice.
Traditions of professionalism, integrity, selflessness date back to times of old and are passed on from generation to generation. This is why the warmest words of gratitude are addressed to our dear veterans, including those who fought in the Great Patriotic War. We are proud of you and seek to emulate your example.
Colleagues,
Today, Interior Ministry bodies – every person – must be up to the highest standards, must carry out effective and systematic work. Your duty is to firmly counter terrorism and extremism, attempts to sow hatred or split our multi-ethnic and multi-religious society. It is important to conduct preventive work, have a direct dialogue with the civic society and the representatives of Russia’s traditional religions.
I should note self-control and responsibility that the police and other bodies of the Interior Ministry are showing while enforcing public order and ensuring traffic safety. Decisive and committed actions are needed to fight corruption, organised crime and drug trafficking. I have stressed a number of times that the Interior Ministry and other law enforcement agencies are getting and will get all the support they need from society and the state.
Special attention should be given to the situation with migration in order to uncover and eradicate any violations of migration regulations and rules while at the same time establishing open, comfortable and favourable conditions for law-abiding foreign nationals – tourists, businesspeople, students, workers, specialists.
Friends,
I am confident that the primary, key and determining principle of your work has been and will always be respect for a person, his rights and duties, his freedoms; your readiness to come to his assistance and protect those who have encountered lawlessness and violence and to curb any attempts to violate the law.
I would like to once again congratulate you and your families on this holiday. Thank you for your efforts! Wishing you good luck and good health!
Topics
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2019, 18:00
Text version