Events
Meeting with heads of international news agencies
June 6, 2019
15:45
St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin met with heads of the world's leading news agencies. The meeting took place on the sidelines of the 2019 St Petersburg International Economic Forum for the sixth time.
The conversation with Vladimir Putin involved representatives of news agencies from Great Britain, Germany, Iran, Spain, Italy, China, the United States, France, and Japan; Russia was represented by TASS Director General Sergei Mikhailov.
Traditionally the main topics of the meeting were current issues of Russian domestic and foreign policy.
***
Transcript of meeting with heads of leading international news agencies
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I am very glad to see you all.
It is our tradition to meet regularly, at almost every St Petersburg forum. I would like to welcome you once again, to wish you a pleasant, successful and rewarding time in St Petersburg.
This year, my meetings with forum guests start with you. And this is a good thing because we will do a little warm-up today, will have a short discussion, which will give me an opportunity, perhaps, to sense what might be of interest to our other partners who have come to the forum this year.
I give the floor to Mr Mikhailov now, and then I will be happy to listen to each of you and, as far as possible, I will try to answer your questions.
Go ahead, please.
TASS Director General Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you.
Mr President,
We appreciate that you found the time in the packed schedule of the forum, as usual, for your annual meeting with the heads of the world's leading news agencies, which account for almost 90 percent of the global news landscape.
Colleagues, I am very grateful to you for your continued interest in the forum, and the city of St Petersburg. I am sure that our conversation today will be as memorable and fulfilling as all the previous ones – and we are meeting for the sixth time.
The St Petersburg International Economic Forum, which has had 21 years of glorious history, has kicked off once again. In the morning, we held a panel discussion, Mr President, where we talked about the role of the media in global conflicts.
As I said, we are now in our sixth meeting. Every year, the participants change a little. You can see our new colleagues attending this meeting for the first time – there are four of them, and I will introduce each of them as we go along. New blood in this circle always organically merges with the experience of old-timers, making our dialogue ever more fruitful.
Undoubtedly, our reporters appreciate the fact that you are meeting with them earlier in the day this time, not when it’s nearly dark, as you used to say, but before you give your speech tomorrow at the main plenary session of the forum. Special thanks for this.
I cannot fail to note that today, on June 6, we celebrate the 220th birth anniversary of Alexander Pushkin. It is Russian Language Day, so the day is special for us and for the forum as well.
TASS, as usual, has studied the main topics that our foreign colleagues raised in writing or in conversations before their visit to Russia. There are many different and very interesting topics, and you will hear about them, as our colleagues will ask you questions.
But there is one thing that interests everyone without exception, so with your permission, I would like to ask a general question on behalf of TASS.
We always started our recent meetings by agreeing that our planet is going through the most dangerous period of confrontation: countries flare up, entire regions blaze, there are sanctions, trade wars, fake news – this is the content of nearly all news feeds from all world agencies. They are talking about a new cold war. Every country is certain that it knows who is to blame for that.
Why do we have to start our conversation in 2019 with the same question: why is the world not becoming any safer? Where is our civilisation going? Do you see the light at the end of the tunnel? What can the countries that are the main players in the political process do about it? This is a generalised question, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: If we look around at the murals, at the frescoes, look up – there is war everywhere. Unfortunately, this has been the case for ages. Human history is full of stories of conflict. It is true that all conflicts were followed by periods of peace. But it would be better to avoid the conflicts altogether.
After the invention and creation of nuclear weapons, humanity has maintained a state of relative global peace for almost 75 years – relative, of course, with the exception of regional conflicts.
Let’s recall Winston Churchill, who first hated the Soviet Union, then called Stalin a great revolutionary when they had to fight Nazism, and then, after the Americans developed nuclear weapons, he practically called for the Soviet Union to be destroyed. Remember his speech at Fulton that kick-started the Cold War?
But as soon as the Soviet Union acquired nuclear weapons, Churchill initiated the coexistence of the two system concept. I do not think he was such an opportunist, but he worked with reality. He accepted reality. A clever man and a pragmatic politician.
Little has changed since that time. We should just keep in mind, should understand what kind of world we live in, and what threats and dangers might await us. If we do not keep this “fiery serpent” under control, if we let it out of the bottle, God forbid, this could lead to a global catastrophe.
Look, today everyone is addressing environmental issues, and they are right to do so, because there are global threats such as climate change, anthropogenic emissions, and so on. All this is correct. Even children are engaged in this, girls and boys all over the world.
But they do not realize, these young people, especially teenagers and children, they are not aware of the global threat and serious challenge posed by possible global conflicts. This is something adult men and women should think about.
However, I get the impression that these issues have somehow become commonplace, and have kind of been shifted to the background. This raises natural concerns.
Our US partners upped and withdrew from the ABM Treaty. So, ladies and gentlemen, I want to ask you: Did any one of you go out with a poster and protest?
No one, silence. As if this is the way it’s supposed to be. Incidentally, this was the first step towards a fundamental destabilisation of the global security framework, and a major step at that.
Now, we are talking about our American partners terminating, also unilaterally, their INF Treaty membership.
In the first case, they at least acted honestly and withdrew from the treaty unilaterally. However, in the second, apparently fully aware that they will bear responsibility for it, they try to blame Russia.
Listen: you and your readers, your audience should open the INF Treaty and read it. Its articles clearly stipulate that short- and medium-range missile launchers cannot be deployed on land. The treaty says so outright. However, they went ahead and deployed them in Romania and Poland which is a direct violation.
Check out what short-range and medium-range missiles are, and then compare them to UAVs. They are the same thing. Now, look at the specifications of the targets for the antimissiles. They are exactly medium- and short-range missiles.
Everyone is pretending to be deaf, blind or dyslexic. We have to react to this somehow, don’t we? Clearly, so. They immediately start looking for perpetrators in Russia. Of course, the threat is serious.
Renewing the START-3 Treaty is on our agenda. However, we can choose not to. Our latest systems guarantee Russia’s security for a fairly long period into the future, I mean we have made significant strides.
And, I must put it bluntly, we have outrun our competitors in terms of creating hyper-weapon systems. If no one is interested in renewing the START-3 Treaty, we will not renew it. We have already said a hundred times that we are ready to do so, but no one is willing to talk about it with us.
Please note that there is no formal negotiating process, and everything will expire in 2021. Mind you, there will be no more instruments to limit an arms race.
Or, for example, deploying weapons in outer space. Do we understand what this means or not? Ask the experts. It means that each of us will have to live at all times, say, under a nuclear weapon. Permanently! But we are doing this, and doing it quickly. Will anyone ever think about it, talk about it, or show any concern? No, complete silence.
Or, take low-yield nuclear weapons, or non-nuclear strategic missiles. What if a global-range strategic missile is launched from a submarine in the middle of the ocean? How do we know if it carries a nuclear charge or not? Do you realise how serious and dangerous this is?
What if the other side responds right away? What will happen then? I am deeply convinced that this should be the subject of an open and absolutely transparent professional discussion, and the international community should be involved in this process as much as is possible in matters of this kind. In any case, people have the right to know what is happening in this sphere.
To reiterate, we are ready to do this. Once again, we are confident in our security, but there is, of course, a concern about the complete dismantling of the entire mechanism of control over strategic armaments and non-proliferation.
What’s the solution? It is in cooperation, period. The most recent conversation I had with President Trump, I must say, inspires certain optimism, because Donald told me that he, too, was concerned about this. He is fully cognizant of the amount of arms-related expenses incurred by the United States and other countries. This money could be used for other purposes. I completely agree with him.
The US Secretary of State came here. We met in Sochi, and he spoke along the same lines. If they think so, we should take some practical steps towards making a joint effort.
Again, today, talks between the countries with the most powerful nuclear potential are the most important ones. However, on a personal note, I think that all nuclear countries should be involved, including official and unofficial.
Talking only with the officially recognised nuclear powers and leaving out the unofficial countries means they will continue to develop nuclear weapons. In the end, this process will grind to a halt even between the official nuclear states. So, by and large, we need to create a broad platform for discussion and decision-making.
In this sense, of course, this could be the light at the end of the tunnel.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
Tradition is important and we in Russia always treat women with respect. Out of a dozen people here, Bloomberg's Executive Editor Rosalind Mathieson is again with us. Your question is the first.
Ms Mathieson is a prominent journalist and political scientist. She lived in Singapore for a long time and recently moved to London with her family. She became Bloomberg's Executive Editor in 2018 and is taking part in our meeting for the second time.
I will tell you a secret. Rosalind is fond of Muay Thai, refuting the joke by Faina Rayevskaya that women are like rotten boards. I hope we’re not wrong and that this is true.
Vladimir Putin: You are scaring me with boxing right away.
Sergei Mikhailov: Just a warning.
Rosalind, go ahead please.
Bloomberg News Executive Editor for International Government Rosalind Mathieson: Thank you, Mr President.
Muay Thai, I believe, has taught me the value and appreciation of fear and to confront and control fear, but I don’t believe I’d be brave enough to get in the ring with you.
I have a question about oil – two questions, actually. Russia’s deal with OPEC is up for renewal this month. Do you favour keeping production at current levels or is your preference – for Russia and for OPEC – to increase output as we go into the second half of the year? And given the importance of oil to your economy and to Russia more broadly, I wanted to ask you about the comments this week by US President Donald Trump, who said that he had been told that Russia is pulling its people out of Venezuela. Moscow has said that this is inaccurate. Is Donald Trump just getting bad information or are you still concerned that the ultimate goal of the US is regime change in Venezuela, and perhaps the ultimate goal beyond that is to have control of Venezuela’s oil assets? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to say that I would not enter the ring with you myself. Not because you're a woman, but because everyone should paddle one's own canoe. I have never boxed. I can meet you on the tatami for some sparring, but there I'd have a solid advantage, I assure you.
As for your questions, let’s begin with the final one on whether we withdrew our people from Venezuela or not and if we are afraid of a regime change. We are generally against interference in the internal political affairs of other countries. We believe it leads to grievous if not tragic consequences. And the example of such countries as Libya and Iraq is the best proof here.
As you know, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. This is a well-known phrase and it’s obvious. So, it is necessary to be patient. It is possible to work with anyone, whether it is the opposition or the current authorities, but you cannot interfere in internal affairs.
It is all the more improper to use sanctions and so on because usually they hurt millions of common people who have nothing to do with the authorities. The global economy suffers.
Take, for example, the fact that Venezuela has cut its oil production in half over the past several years (in half!). If we look at the lives of the millions of people in Venezuela, who are they fighting: Maduro or the people?
This is why we do not approve but, on the contrary, condemn such actions. And more than that, military interventions are invariably a disaster. According to my information, even the US’ allies do not support military intervention, none of them. I do not know anyone who does among Venezuela’s neighbours and even those who condemn Maduro for his domestic political processes. God forbid anyone supports this idea or does anything like that.
About our people in Venezuela. We absolutely, officially sold weapons to Venezuela. We have not been doing so for quite a while now. You represent a publication and a television channel which deals with the economy.
Under the contracts, we are required to service these weapons, and we must fulfil our contractual obligations. Our technicians are doing this and have always done this in recent years.
Truth be told, not everything was technically clean there based on Venezuela’s priorities. There were things they wanted us to fix, and other things they did not want us to do. But we were obliged to do it under the contracts; otherwise we would face sanctions. That is all there is to it, nothing more.
It is quite likely that our specialists did some work there, not only defence specialists, but our people from the manufacturing industry as well. Some of them left, some, maybe, returned. We are not creating anything specific there, no core military bases. Nor are we sending troops there, this has never happened. However, we have always fulfilled and will continue to fulfil our contractual obligations as regards military technical cooperation. This is my second point.
The third point is about our relations with Venezuela and other oil producing countries. As I said, Venezuela cut production. This is due not only (you are probably aware of this) to the sanctions, but to the state of the oil and gas industry in Venezuela.
Venezuela’s credit exposure to Russia is about $3.5 billion, but there is no debt. Venezuela pays regularly and in full and is servicing its loan obligations properly.
Now let us move on to our relations with OPEC. We will continue maintaining these relations. We have no intention of joining OPEC, but we have developed a certain mechanism for cooperation and we will consolidate our positions to take a decision. Yes, indeed, there are some disagreements between us that stem from a different understanding of what can be called fair price. It is also natural, and there is no need either to speak about things you do not know.
Look at the price per barrel of oil that is used to calculate, say, the budget of Saudi Arabia. It is much higher than what we use. Ours is $40 per barrel, and their price is higher. That is why, of course, they want to keep the price higher. We do not need to do this, given, among other things, that our economy is more diversified.
Yes, we still heavily depend on oil and gas, but, of course, [our economy] is much more diversified than, say, the economy of the Persian Gulf countries. For this reason, our manufacturing sector is not interested in the oil price climbing too high.
The average price of $60-$65 per barrel suits us, and we do not need to drive it higher. We have quite a decent margin, budget-wise, given that our budget calculations are based on $40 per barrel, which allows us to replenish our gold and foreign currency reserves and, in general, the government’s and the Central Bank’s reserves.
So we have to consider all circumstances: the decline in oil production in Iran – by a million [barrels] – and Venezuela, as well as problems in Libya and Nigeria. We have to take all these factors into account, including the growth in consumption throughout summer.
We have reached certain agreements. I will not get ahead of myself and will not tell you now what we think we should do in the second half of the year. But our colleagues in OPEC and we will take a decision based on a consolidated position.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Rosalind.
Mr President, yesterday you and President Xi opened a concert at the Bolshoi Theatre marking the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Russia and China, and unveiled an exhibition prepared jointly by TASS and Xinhua for the anniversary. This year we will give our best wishes to our Chinese friends on the important date – the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the People’s Republic of China.
 I want to introduce our reliable partners and old friends – TASS and Xinhua have had relations for 60 years – this is my friend, Xinhua President Cai Mingzhao. This is the second time Mr Cai has attended the meeting.
You will remember that he had a big interview with you in 2016 which was widely and well quoted by the world’s media outlets. Xinhua takes part in annual St Petersburg meetings and the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
I will tell you Mr Cai’s secret – he has a dream to create an evaluation system for Chinese restaurants around the globe by awarding them stars similar to Michelin’s. Nobody doubts the reputation of China’s chefs, the more so that in my opinion the best Chinese chef in Moscow is the one at the Xinhua cafeteria.
Please, Mr Cai, go ahead with your question.
President of Xinhua News Agency Cai Mingzhao (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President.
In June 2016, I interviewed you, and I still remember that time. Let me thank you again for visiting – together with President Xi – the photo exhibition dedicated to the 70th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations.
We know that this year’s main slogan at the St Petersburg forum is Creating a Sustainable Development Agenda. We know that you were involved in helping the Russian economy overcome the challenges it was facing, and it is beginning to recover.
I would like to know about your specific plans and measures for the further recovery of the Russian economy, plans for stepping up economic cooperation with China. Which key areas could you single out?
Vladimir Putin: As for our plans on Russia’s economic recovery, you said yourself that we have already overcome the difficulties that began several years ago for many reasons. The sanctions also played a role but there was more to it.
In fact, they did not play such a substantial role. Primarily, it was due to lower prices on our traditional export commodities, such as, of course, hydrocarbons, some metals and hence, on chemical products linked with this resource. Plus, of course, there was pressure of sanctions.
But we not only overcame the recession but also entered a path of sustainable growth. This was linked to the foreign economic environment but there was more to it. It was also linked with domestic economic factors and factors related to Russia’s economic policy, primarily the steady macroeconomic situation. Last year we had inflation of a little over 4 percent, this year (on an annual basis) we have a bit over 5 percent, and this was after the VAT increase. This is better than we expected.
Now I will explain why this is happening and what we hope for. You know that we decided to implement national programmes in key development areas. The main goal is to diversify the economy, move it towards an innovation track, make it more innovative.
There is a package of goals, measures and means of achieving these goals: improving the system of managing the economy and the country as a whole; digitalisation in economic management; introducing artificial intelligence in all areas of production and life in the country; improving the performance of medicine and biology, improving living standards, increasing life expectancy and birth rate, and so on – there is a whole package of measures. It is enough to just glance at the goals that we have set for ourselves to understand what we are counting on in the next few years.
As for gathering the resources… To begin with, these approaches can be estimated. The development of the infrastructure certainly includes the construction of roads, railways and port facilities.
Obviously, we primarily count on attracting both domestic and foreign investment. I am going to say something about capital flight now as such a question is sure to arise. But to secure the investment the state should contribute its own resources, mainly to infrastructure development, to improving business environment
I am going to start telling you, this is all we are going to talk about. I have a lot to tell you.
There are advances in every field. According to the World Bank Ease of Doing Business ranking, Russia stood in 120th place for business environment, and now it is in 31st place. So there is apparent progress.
We have now made a decision on major changes to the rules concerning inspection and oversight organisations. We want to shut down, to eliminate completely all obsolete and archaic requirements and rules that impede progress. Generally speaking, we will move on in this field to improve business climate conditions.
Regarding attracting capital and capital flight. Yes, indeed, last year we saw significant, though not the biggest in Russia’s contemporary history, capital flight of 66 billion, I think.
Yet the trade surplus is 131 billion. It more than covers the flight. And that disinvested capital is coming back, we also see that.
This is why we do not see any tragedy here, we take it as a natural process. Of course, business participants need only one thing – predictability and stability of the situation. This is obvious. We regularly meet with our partners, both Russian and European businesspeople, and I hope we are going to meet with our US colleagues soon.
By the way, our trade fell from $30 to $20 billion as far back as under President Obama. And even though President Trump broke all records on introducing various restrictions against Russia, under this president US-Russia trade grew by five billion. And it is also growing with European countries.
We meet regularly. I will repeat it again that I met with businesspeople from Great Britain, Germany, France and Italy recently. I will have many meetings here. Why am I telling you this? We try to listen to them and respond appropriately to changes in their working conditions here. We also expect our potential partners to continue to energetically work in this country.
As for the package of measures and the range of objectives that we set before ourselves, please look at our national projects. Let me repeat it again that these projects are about infrastructure, artificial intelligence, biology and, of course, agriculture and so on – there are plenty of them – and this allows us to believe and state that things will move forward. It is hard to say now how much we will be able to deliver.
When I said that the government would have to contribute to the implementation of these large-scale projects, primarily, to the upgrading of infrastructure, I meant we would have to see where the money could come from.
That is why after the protracted (really protracted as we argued, I mean different ministries and experts, for a year, making these calculations) discussion of the funding sources and the government’s obligations, we arrived at a decision that the least damage would be caused if one – not the only one but one – of the measures would be increasing VAT.
In so doing, we realised that at the initial stage this would be detrimental to the country’s economic growth, we understood this well. VAT increased, [economic] activity is scaling down and so on. But we expected the short-term effect to last for approximately six months, not longer, and then investment in the economy, including in infrastructure, would trigger economic growth. So far, our preliminary calculations have proved correct.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg
June 6 − 7, 2019
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 6, 2019, 15:45
Text versionEvents
Visiting St Petersburg State University
June 6, 2019
20:30
St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin attended the ceremony to award an honorary doctorate of St Petersburg State University to President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping
. The degree was presented by University’s rector Nikolai Kropachev.
Earlier, in April 2019, during a working visit to China, Vladimir Putin received an honorary doctorate at Tsinghua University, one of the leading universities in China.
Before the ceremony, the Russian and Chinese presidents toured an exhibition of collections of the St Petersburg State University Scientific Library. The display shows books of different eras, which the university translates from Chinese into Russian and publishes in Russia.
In particular, the two leaders were shown a rare 17th-century manuscript book on metal melting; it was given to the university by a Chinese collector. The rector of St Petersburg State University presented a copy of this book to the Chinese President. Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping were also given paintings by Russian and Chinese students.
Speech at the ceremony to present President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping an honorary doctorate of St Petersburg State University
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Xi Jinping, friends,
First of all, I would like to sincerely thank the University’s academic board for their decision and also to congratulate with all my heart President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping on receiving an honorary doctorate of St Petersburg State University.
I would like to say that I have known the new University Doctor for many years and I can assure the academic board and the entire university that you did not make a mistake, you made the right decision, because I know how President Xi Jinping has worked for many years. Mr President and I sometimes work on major decisions that have enormous importance for bilateral relations.
Without exaggeration or embellishing the truth, I can say that he really is an expert in political science theory and a real scholar. This relates not only to bilateral relations, but global issues as well.
Many of you probably know about Mr Xi Jinping’s ideas that are outlined in his proposals on the development of international cooperation, an initiative called Belt and Road. It is a major international project that involves a huge number of countries.
This is large-scale, fundamental work that will have a global impact. Dozens of countries have already joined the project; hundreds of millions of dollars have been invested in the projects proposed by President Xi Jinping. He is both a theoretician, for he suggested these ideas, and a practitioner because he is implementing them.
I am particularly happy to note that my alma mater, where I studied and where, as you may know, I had the honour of working as assistant University Rector, has conferred this honorary title on the President of the People’s Republic of China. Today, the rector and the entire university are my assistants, and I am very grateful to them for this. Thank you for your support.
I would like to stress that St Petersburg University has been and remains a flagship of Russian-Chinese cooperation in science and education, and it occupies a befitting place among leading global centres for studying the language, culture and history of the People’s Republic of China.
Leading Russian scholars of China of worldwide acclaim work and lecture here. In the 19th century, Russia’s first school for China studies was established at the Chinese Philology Department of the University’s Oriental Department.
Today, our university implements 40 multi-level educational programmes developed with a view to expanding cooperation with China. They include unique new projects for students, such as in-depth Chinese language courses and courses on modern China’s economy, legal system and public life.
Almost 2,000 students from the People’s Republic of China are currently studying at St Petersburg State University. Friends, I can see some of you here. They are mastering a wide variety of subjects, including finance, management, natural sciences and the humanities.
The university maintains partner ties with many leading higher education institutions and research and development centres in the People’s Republic of China. My friend, the President of the People’s Republic of China, has just said that they include Beijing and Harbin universities, as well as Tsinghua University, of which the President is a graduate.
Russia and China are actively expanding their inter-university exchanges. Currently about 90,000 lecturers, postgraduate and undergraduate students are involved in them.
All this shows convincingly that Russian and Chinese young people and our research and academic community strive to maintain mutual contacts, and they are always interested in studying the immensely rich historical and cultural legacy of our countries, as well as modern Chinese and Russian achievements.
Friends, allow me to once again congratulate the President of the People’s Republic of China on receiving this honorary degree and to thank him for his efforts to develop bilateral ties and to strengthen friendship between the peoples of our countries. I would also like to thank him for expanding cooperation between Russia and China.
Thank you very much.
See also
Working visit to China
April 25 − 27, 2019
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg
June 6 − 7, 2019
Geography
Saint Petersburg
People's Republic of China
Topics
Culture
Professional training
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 6, 2019, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan
June 6, 2019
18:00
St Petersburg
1 of 7
With Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan.
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan on the sidelines of the 2019 St Petersburg International Economic Forum. They discussed important aspects of the Russian-Armenian strategic partnership, regional cooperation and interaction in integration structures.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, friends,
I am glad to welcome you again – this time in St Petersburg.
I have no doubt that you will find it interesting and, hopefully, useful to take part in discussions at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
It offers you a good format in which to meet your colleagues, talk with them and discuss current issues on the economic agenda, as well as to talk about political issues, so I would call it a useful and important event.
There is no need to characterise our bilateral relations as we do this regularly: we met quite recently and discussed many issues and had the opportunity to talk about everything on the sidelines of the EAEU summit in Kazakhstan.
Let me remind you that Russia is Armenia’s leading trade and economic partner, which accounts for 26 percent [of Armenia’s foreign trade], plus direct investment worth two billion [dollars] and many other things that show that we maintain special relations of two allies.
I am glad to have the opportunity to meet with you today and discuss the entire range of issues.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan: Thank you, Mr President.
I am glad to meet with you again in St Petersburg. Recently, we met in Nur-Sultan. For the first time, we met a year ago [May 14, 2018, in Sochi]. During this year, we have met repeatedly and talked about practically all possible issues on our common agenda.
I would like to say that, in my opinion, our relations are developing consistently. These are strategic, allied relations between our countries, as you said. And this refers not only to bilateral relations; we actively cooperate within the Eurasian Economic Union, the CIS and the CSTO.
I think that all these areas are of strategic importance for our countries. I am happy that we have an opportunity to consistently promote our relations in these areas.
I would like to say that we have rather optimistic economic indicators this year: 7.1 percent economic growth at the end of the first three months. In April, the economic activity indicator was 9.2 percent.
Why am I talking about this? These are good indicators not only for Armenia but also for the Eurasian Economic Union, because our economic indicators are largely linked with our relations within the Eurasian Economic Union and the Armenian business community’s access to the Russian market. This is very important. I hope that we will manage to reach such solutions to certain issues that would not to disrupt these fine economic growth rates.
I would like to say that we also have rather good growth this year in terms of the number of tourists coming to Armenia from Russia. Today we can hear Russian spoken everywhere in Armenia, both in the capital and in major tourist spots.
When I meet them, I always make a point of inquiring how they feel in Armenia. I can say with certainty that Russian tourists feel very well in Armenia. And it is obvious that increasingly more Russian tourists will be coming to my country.
This is good, of course, because, I think, this is not an economic matter alone; it concerns our cultural and humanitarian ties. These contacts, I think, facilitate the development of our political and economic relations.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg
June 6 − 7, 2019
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Armenia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Pashinyan Nikol
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 6, 2019, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Bulgaria Rumen Radev
June 6, 2019
16:00
St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rumen Radev at the Konstantin Palace. The meeting was held as part of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
Interaction in the energy sector (energy resources account for 75 percent of exports from Russia to Bulgaria) was one of the key topics of discussion. Cooperation between the two countries, which mark the 140th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations this year, in other areas, in particular, in culture and education, was also discussed.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
Welcome to St Petersburg. Mr President, I am very pleased to see you again.
First of all, I would like to say that relations between Russia and Bulgaria are gradually being restored. We see small, but steady growth in trade which increased 2.8 percent in the first quarter.
In general, in terms of absolute figures, we could have achieved much more, of course, but the good part is that relations at the government and parliament levels have now become more active and the intergovernmental commission has resumed its work.
All this is a good enough reason to believe that we are using untapped opportunities to step up our relations across almost all areas.
We are very pleased to see you, welcome. I hope your stay and work at the St Petersburg Economic Forum will be both interesting and productive.
President of Bulgaria Rumen Radev (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President.
Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your invitation to visit the Russian Federation once again and to take part in the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
Mr President, this is our second meeting over such a short time. This sends out a clear message about new dynamics in our bilateral relations, which rest on profound historical, cultural and spiritual ties. This shows that both sides would like to develop these relations vigorously, constructively and on a mutually beneficial basis.
In addition, our countries maintain extremely good relations at the level of governments and parliaments. As you know, Bulgaria is a member of the European Union and NATO, but this does not preclude the development of intensive relations with the Russian Federation even in this complicated situation and in these conditions.
I believe that constructive dialogue and cooperation are key to a peaceful, prosperous and thriving Europe.
We maintain extremely good relations that have rich traditions in science, culture, education and tourism.
We are strategic partners in the energy sector, and we have the required potential for deepening cooperation. As you know, we have purchased two Russian reactors, which means that Russia has a niche in the future construction of a nuclear power plant, regardless of who wins the tender and becomes the strategic investor.
We also maintain a long-time partnership in gas deliveries and transit. I would like to inform you of the following fact in some detail: Bulgaria continues to modernise and expand its gas transportation system, and there are plans to set up a gas distribution centre and a gas exchange. Interconnectors with our neighbours are being built.
This provides additional new opportunities for delivering Russian gas to Bulgaria, in a new direction, in the direction of Central Europe. At the same time, intensive processes in the area of expanding the gas market and the European gas map are underway.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg
June 6 − 7, 2019
Geography
Bulgaria
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Radev Rumen
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 6, 2019, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with RDIF International Advisory Board and international investment community leaders
June 6, 2019
18:45
St Petersburg
Vladimir Putin met with members of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) International Advisory Board and representatives of the international investment community. The meeting was held in a working lunch format.
This year the meeting was attended by representatives from investment funds from Germany, France, Japan, China, South Korea, India, Italy, the UAE and Saudi Arabia. A total of more than 40 international investors were invited to a conversation with the Russian leader, who, generally speaking, manage over $15 trillion.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
Let me sincerely welcome you to our traditional meeting that is held annually within the framework of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
There are a great number of people here whom we have known for quite a long time, people we meet with and regularly discuss plans with. Some of our colleagues have probably come here for the first time.
I would like to express the hope that you will like it here – in Russia, in St Petersburg at the economic forum – and that these meetings will be useful and substantive and will create conditions for developing your business in Russia.
You know that we have set ourselves fairly large and ambitious development goals that are expressed in national programmes.
Basically, these are our plans and they do not come from thin air but are backed by resources, and what I consider no less important, by our real economic policy.
I would like to express the modest hope that you will agree with me that this policy produces results and creates the conditions for your active and efficient operations.
I am referring to the macroeconomic indicators that we have achieved recently – a budget surplus, the current account surplus of payment transactions and a considerable amount of international reserves.
As for inflation, let me recall that last year it was a very good figure for the Russian economy – 4.3 percent (the Minister of Economic Development agrees, so I am not mistaken). It increased a little at the beginning of this year, but now we are expecting a lower rate.
According to Rosstat, from May 28, 2019 to June 3, 2019 the inflation was only 0.01 percent, or 2.4 percent since the start of the year and 5.08 percent in annual terms. As I said, I think there is a downward trend, all the more so since low growth is predictable and we have considered this. We thought this would happen because of the VAT increase.
We thought a lot about what we should do regarding the search for sources to fund the state’s liabilities in our national programmes that I spoke about. These are large-scale projects in infrastructure development, cutting-edge manufacturing, digitalisation, healthcare and education development, and other key areas that will ensure, and must ensure high growth rates and structural changes in the economy throughout the world.
So we took it upon ourselves to increase VAT by 2 percent. We were aware that it would affect, to a certain extent, economic growth and inflation, yet we proceeded from the assumption that as the projects started unfolding, as the state invested in infrastructure and other areas which are directly dependent on the state, including those areas that create conditions for your investments, that inflation would settle down, and growth rates would go up.
This is what is happening so far. We are seeing exactly what we expected; we have not found mistakes in our forecasts yet. The 2019 January through May federal budget surplus reached 683 billion rubles. As of April 1, 2019, the trade surplus, according to the Bank of Russia, was $45.5 billion, whereas international reserves reached almost $500 billion – 492.2 billion; I have the exact figures.
Economic growth last year was 2.3 percent, the highest since 2012. I can say without exaggeration that we have overcome the hardships and have embarked on a road of sustainable development and increased growth rates.
We did not simply set the goal of becoming one of the top five economies in the world – there was a fluctuation between fifth and sixth places, there was a time when we came in fifth, but this is not the only goal.
The goal is to ensure the technological and spatial development of the country through sustainable growth, and to progress to a higher standard of living for our citizens in key parameters.
This is why the national projects and programmes I spoke about are being launched. Total funding over six years should be around $400 billion, which includes not only state funds but also private investment.
Colleagues, we would definitely welcome foreign capital in these massive plans, we offer good, reliable conditions and modern tools for cooperation. That conditions in Russia are changing has been reported by independent analysts. Specifically – I have already given these numbers today, they are well known – according to the World Bank’s Doing Business rankings, Russia has climbed from 121 to 31 in just two or three years.
This is clear progress, but we understand that it is still not enough; we will keep working on it. For this to be evident we have adopted a programme to improve the business environment and to support business and attract investment.
We have a number of instruments, and one of them is the Russian Direct Investment Fund. It was set up back in 2011, and since that time, we have used it to invest over a trillion and a half rubles in ongoing projects in almost every Russian region.
I would like to draw you attention to the fact that investment yields are higher than world indices. Is this information open or classified?
CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriev: About 15 percent.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I just was not sure if I could say it or not. This is about a 15 percent annual return on all projects with the RDIF participation.
A number of companies and investment funds together with the RDIF have already invested in the development of medical centres, the reconstruction of major highways, and so on.
I should stress that these projects have been carefully evaluated, and the main beneficiaries are the state, society and the investors. I have already told you about the return on investment.
We are ready to further expand interaction in areas like education, healthcare, transport, infrastructure, creating a modern urban environment, increasing corporate efficiency and labour productivity.
It requires both large investment and the considerable experience of launching large-scale development programmes that you possess.
Another promising area I mentioned is investing in the design and introduction of digital and other so called end-to-end technologies in promoting advanced and unique products. We see a lot of room for cooperation here, all the more so now that the high-tech markets are growing so rapidly, exponentially, as they say.
I would like to note one of the RDIF digital economy projects – establishing in cooperation with Moscow State University an AI Centre that will have competitive, comfortable conditions for scientists, engineers and programmers.
It is designed to become a crucial element in the implementation of the National Strategy for technology development in the field of artificial intelligence. I know that our Chinese friends are also showing interest in this.
This is what I wanted to say at the beginning.
There is something I would like to ask – please be understanding of the fact that, unfortunately, I do not have much time today, and my colleagues are waiting for me to take part in various events, so could we maybe change the format a little?
Usually I immediately responded to each of your comments and proposals. Maybe this time our colleagues here will say what they have to say, and then I will just try to summarise in one comment the matters that are of the biggest interest.
Thank you for your understanding.
Kirill Dmitriev: Mr President, colleagues,
On behalf of all those present I would like to thank you for your support of the Russian Direct Investment Fund and our partners present here. Very briefly, we wanted to say that interest in such meetings is growing from year to year. The investors present here manage capital of $15 trillion, which is $1.5 trillion more than last year.
Many of our partners are interested in investing in Russian national projects, and, accordingly, we will discuss in which projects or exactly how they would like to participate.
The RDIF is successfully developing, and our companies’ profits have increased by 18 percent over the past year. Many investors seem to like the RDIF model very much, because the government does not just spend money, but invests it with profitability, so that for every ruble we attract nine rubles from our partners. Moreover, we attract not only funds, but also expertise and help our companies to enter foreign markets. At present, seven other countries are creating their own funds that use the Russian Direct Investment Fund model.
Let me briefly outline our work with China. As you may know, the Russian-Chinese investment fund has invested in more than 30 projects. We are working with yuan funds in China and are creating a $10 billion fund with China Development Bank, also in yuan.
Technology cooperation with China is especially important. I am referring to our deal with Alibaba, Mail.ru and Megafon, which is being finalised, the creation of a Russian-Chinese innovation fund with a target size of $1 billion and the first venture investment by the Russian-Chinese venture capital fund.
In conclusion, I would like to say that investors are extremely interested in financing national projects in Russia. At this forum, we will announce 10 new investments of the Russian Direct Investment Fund: investment in NefteTransServis; a cattle breeding project with Inalko; joint investment with Baring Vostok in the development of ivi – a huge online cinema; partnership with DP World [major global port operator]; with Rosatom and Norilsk Nickel in the development of the Northern Sea Route and the modernisation of the Baikonur space centre – its Site 1 nicknamed Gagarinskiy Start [Gagarin's launch pad]. Investors have confirmed interest in these and many other projects.
Today we will hear about their experience, expertise and the projects in which they would like to take part.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg
June 6 − 7, 2019
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Investment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 6, 2019, 18:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Slovakia Peter Pellegrini
June 6, 2019
17:10
St Petersburg
10 of 10
Meeting with Prime Minister of Slovakia Peter Pellegrini.
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of the Slovak Republic Peter Pellegrini. The two leaders discussed current issues of developing bilateral relations in different areas and items on the international agenda.
This is the first meeting between Vladimir Putin and Peter Pellegrini who took office in March 2018. The Prime Minister of Slovakia arrived in Russia to attend the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, friends,
I am very pleased to welcome you to St Petersburg.
Thank you for finding the time to come to the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. At the beginning of our conversation I would like to note that our countries have traditionally enjoyed trust-based and friendly relations. This also has an impact on our economic ties.
We consider your country to be one of our main partners in economic cooperation. Suffice it to say that our trade increased by almost 25 percent in one go in the first quarter of this year.
We have an intergovernmental commission working. I believe its next meeting will take place in October.
In Russia?
Minister of Trade and Industry Denis Manturov: In Sochi.
Vladimir Putin: In Sochi. Excellent.
We are very happy to see you and to have this opportunity to discuss with you the entire range of bilateral ties.
Welcome!
Prime Minister of Slovakia Peter Pellegrini (retranslated): Mr President,
We are very pleased to have this opportunity to discuss with the Russian delegation the main aspects of our good relations.
In my opening remarks, I would like to emphasise that our citizens have a lot in common, such as friendly relations in the past and today, and close ties that go back a long way.
We cherish the memory of our joint fight against Nazism. Slovakia is not rewriting history. We have a lot of respect for the Red Army and do not question its role in liberating our country at the end of World War II. We hold in high respect its heroism and sacrifice.
I am very happy, therefore, that before our meeting today, we laid a wreath at the Piskaryovskoye Memorial Cemetery in St Petersburg and honoured the memory of those who died during the siege of Leningrad.
We are also pleased to be here in the run-up to the August celebrations of the 75th anniversary of the Slovak National Uprising. We would be honoured to welcome the highest-level Russian representatives to our country. We would like you to attend these celebrations.
We had a very good conversation with the Prime Minister and the ministers in Moscow yesterday. Indeed, trade is going up. We can also note a very good and open cooperation in energy. Slovakia is a good partner of Russia in the transit of gas and oil. We believe future projects will not affect this partnership.
We are pleased to see major tourist flows going both ways. We cooperate in education as well. The increased interest in Slovakia in studies of the Russian language is a positive sign. We hope this trend will continue.
Once again, my ministers and I would like to thank you for the opportunity to see you and discuss the issues that are of interest for both sides.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg
June 6 − 7, 2019
Geography
Slovakia
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 6, 2019, 17:10
Text version