Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a regular meeting with Government members.
April 29, 2019
15:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 8
Meeting with Government members.
The meeting participants discussed relief measures for wildfires in the Trans-Baikal Territory and assistance for the fire victims. Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief Yevgeny Zinichev and Deputy Finance Minister Leonid Gornin delivered respective reports.
Labour and Social Protection Minister Maxim Topilin reported on measures of social support for war veterans, disabled war veterans and participants in the Great Patriotic War, residents of besieged Leningrad, home front workers, and former minor Nazi prisoners.
Education Minister Olga Vasilyeva and Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev spoke about preparations for the summer health promotion campaign, also with a focus on safety requirements to children's recreation facilities.
Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev reported on efforts to boost road safety, reduce the number of accidents and traffic fatalities.
Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Konstantin Chuychenko gave the keynote report on reforming monitoring and oversight activities.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with Government members
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Recently in Chita, we discussed the situation with wildfires in the Trans-Baikal Territory. I would ask Mr Zinichev to tell us how the work is progressing.
Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev: Mr President, can I first say a few words about the current situation.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead, please.
Yevgeny Zinichev: There are 12 outbreaks of forest fires in the area; two have been contained; the total area affected is 3,700 hectares. Due to adverse weather conditions, dry weather and strong winds, the threat of wildfires remains. A state of emergency has been declared in the region.
Now regarding our efforts to overcome the consequences of wildfires. The Emergencies Ministry, together with the regional administration, continues to work to assist fire victims. As per your executive order, and based on the estimates of the damage assessment commissions (a total of 13 commissions are currently working), one-time financial assistance payments are being made from the regional budget in connection with the misbalance of living conditions.
The work continues to restore people’s lost documents. To date, all applicants have been issued new identification, 112 people, 53 passports and 59 birth certificates.
Today, the Government of the Russian Federation has issued a resolution on financial assistance to wildfire victims in the amount of up to 50.3 million rubles, including 4.2 million rubles to those who have been injured.
The damage assessment commissions continue their work.
To compensate for damages to citizens and agricultural producers and to restore housing and utilities facilities and social infrastructure, the Emergencies Ministry assists the regional executive bodies in establishing the facts of the damage and in compiling a list of necessary works.
A mechanism for providing housing to those who have lost it has been determined with consideration for their wishes. They are offered the opportunity to either build new housing near their current residence or acquire ready-to-move-in housing of their choice elsewhere. According to our tentative data, 57 families want to build new housing in this area while 62 families are ready to buy in other new buildings.
In cooperation with the Emergencies Ministry and the Finance Ministry, the Ministry of Construction has submitted to the Government a package of documents approving the procedure for spending the money allocated for rehabilitation of housing in the amount of up to 450 million rubles.
To improve wildfire prevention, the Emergencies Ministry has drafted a number of major proposals to amend legislative acts.
The operations headquarters on mitigating the consequences of the fires and rendering help to the victims is open around the clock.
This concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Do we have anyone from the Finance Ministry?
Mr Gornin, say a few words, please.
Deputy Finance Minister Leonid Gornin: Mr President,
To provide prompt financial assistance, we allocated 3.2 billion rubles to the Trans-Baikal Territory back on April 24. These resources are also used to provide aid to citizens and 447 people have already received it, de facto. On the whole, the work of determining payments to the victims is being done quickly. Today, another 55 million rubles will be transferred from the Government’s Reserve Fund to make up for the costs in the Trans-Baikal Territory.
 <…>
Vladimir Putin: Now let’s turn to safety. We have one more important issue, notably traffic safety. Last year we registered 17,622 hit-and-run accidents. These traffic accidents killed 818 people and injured 17,946. Legislators have adopted addenda to the regulations. I would like to ask Mr Kolokoltsev to comment on them. Go ahead, please.
Minister of the Interior Vladimir Kolokoltsev: Mr President, in general much has been done in the past few years to improve traffic safety, including the improvement of regulations. Penalties for the most serious violations of traffic rules have been toughened. These include failure to give way to pedestrians and violations of requirements to carrying children. It is now against the law to leave small children in a car. And drivers will be held criminally responsible for repeated drinking and driving.
At the same time, we certainly understand that we need to continue increasing road safety for conscientious road users and disciplining the violators as much as possible. This is especially important as we enter holiday season when traffic increases significantly.
In some cases, even increasing penalties does not produce the desired effect. Some drivers will try to use legal loopholes, as you said, to avoid responsibility. One loophole was eliminated after amendments were adopted.
Previously, when qualifying a violation of the Traffic Rules that entailed serious consequences like a driving-while-intoxicated (DWI) offence, a driver was declared intoxicated only if this was confirmed by a medical check-up, or if the violator refused to undergo it. At the same time, offenders in hit-and-run accidents appeared to be in a privileged position compared to drunk drivers who remained at the scene. So DWI offenders just drove away and were later tracked down or came to the police when it was no longer possible to establish intoxication. This led to a milder sentence. Today, with the new amendments to the Criminal Code, such offenders’ liability has been increased.
Now, leaving the scene is qualified as serious as driving in a state of intoxication. That is, drivers are now more interested in proving they were sober at the time of accident, otherwise the liability would be more severe, as much as for DWI accidents.
But I must say that last year, offending drivers left the scene after 17,500 traffic accidents that entailed casualties. The recent changes are aimed at reducing the number of these cases. They should increase people’s social responsibility, encourage them to stay and help the victims.
As part of the work to strengthen accountability for traffic violations, we are also planning a series of very serious and strict proposals aimed at reducing the number of casualties as a result of traffic accidents. We expect that the steps already taken and the new ones being prepared will help significantly reduce the road traffic death rate.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Thank you.
Has it been declining lately, overall?
Vladimir Kolokoltsev: Yes, in recent years we are seeing a reduction in traffic-related death rate, from 19 per 100,000 people to 13, but we have higher targets for enhancing the work in this area: 4 per 100,000.
Vladimir Putin: Keep working at it.
Vladimir Kolokoltsev: Right.
<…>
See also
Executive Order on overcoming the consequences of wildfires in Trans-Baikal Territory
April 26, 2019
Trip to Trans-Baikal Territory
April 25, 2019
Geography
Trans-Baikal Territory
Topics
Regions
Persons
Zinichev Yevgeny
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 29, 2019, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Presenting Hero of Labour medals
Ahead of Spring and Labour Day, a ceremony for presenting the Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation gold medals took place in the Kremlin’s St Catherine Hall. Five Russians were decorated for special services to the state and the people.
April 29, 2019
14:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 17
Presenting Hero of Labour medals.
The President presented Hero of Labour medals to Sergei Antonov, head of the fishing equipment and tackle gear department of Yuzhmorrybflot; Olga Bochkareva, hump yard operator at Inskaya railway station; Nikolai Zharkov, adviser to General Director of Krasnoye Sormovo plant; Vasily Lanovoy, actor at Vakhtangov State Academic Theatre; and Iskhak Mashbashev, writer, chairman of the Board of the Union of Writers of Adygea.
The title of the Hero of Labour of Russia was established in March 2013 and is awarded for outstanding achievements in public, social and economic activity; for contribution to the country’s socioeconomic development, including industrial production, agriculture, transport, construction, science, culture, education, healthcare and other areas.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I am very glad to meet you all on the eve of the holiday, May 1, and to present to you the Hero of Labour gold medals.
The word ‘hero’ speaks volumes. Heroes are courageous, steadfast and outstanding people, outstanding personalities, hard workers in the highest sense of the word. Responsible, worthy citizens of their country. All of you have these wonderful qualities, you faithfully serve Russia and the cause you have devoted your life to.
From ancient times, our ancestors valued such people, treated them with respect, and glorified honest, creative work. These traditions, these foundations are in our national mentality. The entire glorious history of Russia is filled with the achievements of her sons and daughters – hardworking, persevering, resolute, and tireless people. Our contemporaries are carrying on this glorious chronicle – people like you. And today we are honouring the heroes who have made bright, wonderful accomplishments.
See also
Answer to a journalist’s question after the ceremony for presenting the Hero of Labour medals
April 29, 2019
Sergei Antonov’s career is linked with the development of commercial fishing in the Primorye Territory. He knows all aspects of this sphere down to the smallest detail, as well as highly complicated fishing technologies. Mr Antonov takes his job very seriously and spends a lot of time and effort boosting the competitiveness of the national fisheries sector and its efficiency as well as training a reliable personnel reserve. His fruitful work in the interests of the Far East and the whole of Russia sets a worthy example for young people.
This wonderful team includes Olga Bochkareva, a charming woman and a real leader. She has been organising shipments and controlling traffic at Inskaya sorting station of the West Siberian Railway. This difficult job has many intricacies. Ms Bochkareva has mastered them completely, she does her duty in an impeccable manner, pays attention to introducing innovative methods, and she is a wonderful specialist and mentor.
Substantial technical achievements and notable pages in the national industry’s history are linked with the legendary Krasnoye Sormovo Shipyard in the Nizhny Novgorod Region. Honorary shipbuilder Nikolai Zharkov headed it for many years. He joined the shipyard at a very young age and worked his way through the ranks from budding specialist to general director and won tremendous prestige and authority with his co-workers and the entire shipbuilding sector. Projects the aim of which is to strengthen Russia’s combat potential and to create the national icebreaker fleet have been implemented under his supervision. Largely owing to Mr Zharkov, the shipyard continues to develop today, building multirole ships of various classes.
The high ideals of patriotism, devotion to duty and the Fatherland distinguish the work of Vasily Lanovoy. He himself and the pictures created by his talent are truly inseparable. They will continue to exist for all times and throughout all eras. The whole country knows and loves Mr Lanovoy for his vivid roles in the best domestic films and plays performed at the Vakhtangov Theatre. He is respected for his civic attitude and position of principle, for public and charity work. Now during the preparations for the great occasion, Victory Day, I would like to make a special mention of Mr Lanovoy’s enormous contribution to the protection of historical truth and the memory of the immortal exploit of our people. He devotes his entire self to this extremely important work and he is doing it sincerely, with an open heart.
Events of the Great Patriotic War are described in the literary works of Adyghe writer and poet Iskhak Mashbashev. His wonderful lyric poetry and works celebrating the glory of the North Caucasus can be heard both in Russian and other languages and his translations of Russian literature into such a rare language as Adyghe are impressive and a real treat for us. I must say that, regrettably, in the past few years, this work has not been carried out on such a large scale as in the Soviet times. We are losing a lot in this respect and all this should be restored. So we are grateful to you for your efforts in this sphere. This contribution to the mutual enrichment of cultures and augmentation of the distinctive legacy of multi-ethnic Russia deserves respect and gratitude.
See also
Vladimir Putin signed the Executive Order On Awarding the Hero of Labour Title
April 26, 2019
Friends, the pride and dignity of a country lie in its citizens, their heroic deeds and labour achievements. You have made outstanding achievements in developing production, transport, strengthening the defence capability and defence potential of this country, and implementing important public initiatives as well as creative undertakings.
I would like to congratulate you once again on being awarded the great title of Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation. I would like to thank you for everything that you have done and, I am sure, you will still do for your home country, for our people. I wish you every success, and of course, good health.
On the forthcoming occasion of Victory Day, I would like to wish you all the very best. Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Once again I would like to congratulate the award recipients. In their acceptance remarks all of them talked about their work in one way or another, which is natural and quite predictable. They have worked all their lives; they are working now and will continue to work. And each of them said they are willing to do even more, in fact, they mean it.
We are very grateful to you. Thank you for your work, for the results of your work and, most importantly, for your attitude to work in the name of the Fatherland. This is so important. This attitude is no less important than the results of your work.
Thank you. Happy holiday.
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 29, 2019, 14:10
Text version