Events
Meeting with ILO Director-General Guy Ryder
Following the meeting of the Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees at the Society’s headquarters in St Petersburg, Vladimir Putin met with Director-General of the International Labour Organization Guy Ryder.
April 23, 2019
18:50
St Petersburg
3 of 3
Director-General of the International Labour Organization Guy Ryder.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Ryder, colleagues, I am very glad to see you. Welcome, this time to St Petersburg.
First of all, I would like to congratulate you on this significant occasion, the 100th anniversary of the International Labour Organization. Russia and the ILO have established close and constructive cooperation. Together we work to provide employment, fitting wages, labour protection and do many other things in coordination and consultation with you.
During this trip to Russia, you took part in Russian Labour Protection Week, which was held in Sochi. We have a cooperation programme between Russia and the ILO until 2020. As far as we understand, this document is being successfully implemented.
We are pleased to see you in Russia. Welcome. I am happy to have a chance to discuss our cooperation.
There is also another thing I would like to mention. I mean presenting you with the Order of Friendship, a Russian state award. I would like to wish you further success in your work and hope to present it to you in accordance with our protocol, during a ceremony in Moscow.
Director-General of the International Labour Organization Guy Ryder:
Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the opportunity of meeting and thank you for your generous comments about the ILO’s 100th anniversary.
It is a matter, I think, of some satisfaction that this centenary arrives at a moment when the relationships between the Russian Federation and our organisation, I think, are at their strongest in living memory. We have developed, I think, a very solid programme of cooperation together. I would say, Mr President, that it is a two-way relationship. We hope that we contribute something to the efforts and the objectives that you have set for the Russian Federation, that certainly the ILO benefits as well from the inputs of our Russian colleagues.
We have decided to dedicate our centenary to looking forwards, not backwards to our history, but forwards to the future of work and the challenges that lie ahead of all of us. And what I think is striking, Mr President, is the work that we are doing brings up the same issues that you have highlighted here in Russia, for example, in the national programme that you set out in May of last year and your recent Address to the National Assembly in February.
We have to prepare our peoples for a new technological era – digitalisation. And our Russian colleagues have been very clear in saying that we need to look towards the humanisation of work, work that really benefits the health, the well-being of people and their families; and these are messages, Mr President, that you are expressing very, very strongly.
<…>
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Foreign policy
Labour market
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 23, 2019, 18:50
Text versionEvents
Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees meeting
Vladimir Putin held the eleventh meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Russian Geographical Society at the Society’s headquarters. The agenda included a review of the organisation’s performance in 2018 and the current year’s projects.
April 23, 2019
18:20
5 of 14
Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees meeting.
Prior to the meeting, the President toured an exhibition of crockery raised from a sunken 19th century English ship. The ship was discovered in 2017 at a depth of 60 metres in the waters off Gogland Island using hydroacoustic equipment during an expedition by the Russian Geographical Society’s Centre for Underwater Research.
Russian Geographical Society medals and certificates of merit were presented at the end of the meeting.
President of the International Fencing Federation and member of the Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees Alisher Usmanov was awarded the Konstantinovskaya Medal for his outstanding contribution to RGO activities.
The Ivan Borodin gold medal was presented to Vice-President of the Russian Geographical Society Alexander Chibilev for his outstanding contribution to the study and protection of natural heritage sites in Russia and on the occasion of his 70th birthday.
The Nizhny Novgorod and Tomsk regional branches of the Russian Geographical Society were awarded the small silver medal for fostering a sensitive attitude toward nature among young people and for studies of the Siberian region, Russia and the world, respectively.
The team behind the documentary film The Northern Sea Route received a certificate of merit for popularising the history of the heroic development of the Russian Arctic, and the youth club based at the RGO branch in the Republic of Crimea received a certificate of merit for achievements in developing RGO youth clubs.
* * *
Speech at the Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees meeting
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
I welcome all of you to this Russian Geographical Society Board of Trustees meeting. Once again, we are meeting at the historical headquarters of the organisation and, by tradition, we will discuss completed and future projects, which are implemented largely thanks to your support.
An approach based on personal involvement and the serious practical help of the trustees and members of the RGO’s media council makes it possible to implement truly useful initiatives, involve people of all ages in exciting and constructive work that makes it possible to learn more about the nature, history and culture of Russia, and direct your talent and energy towards the good of our Fatherland.
There are many areas where the RGO’s abilities can be applied. Apart from purely geographical, educational, and research programmes, the society is engaged in the preservation and study of cultural heritage, in environmental protection and research work. Every year, dozens of films and books are released thanks to RGO grants, and various exhibitions and educational events are held. The promotion and popularisation of educational and environmental tourism plays a special role in RGO activities.
In autumn, Russia will host the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organisation. As the host country, it is important that we not only properly host visitors from more than 150 countries, but also make every effort to ensure that the leading representatives of the global tourism industry realise how great Russia’s tourism potential is, that we have every reason to be among the leaders in international rankings of the most popular travel destinations in the world.
Of course, having appropriate infrastructure plays an important role in attracting tourists; this much is clear to everyone. But good hotels and transport accessibility cannot compensate for the lack of clear and well-arranged travel routes. I am confident that not only professionals, but all people who know and love our country should be engaged in developing this content, to use a modern term, for a national tourist product, and here the Russian Geographical Society certainly has something to offer. No other organisation or agency can boast such an extensive database of Russia’s natural wealth, folk traditions and landmarks.
No less important is the RGO’s unique community, which brings together experienced local historians, researchers and ethnographers. They already have many projects that can showcase Russia to the world in its diversity, from small thematic trails to large package tours across several regions of our vast country. These could include a tour to places associated with the history and culture of the Bosporus Kingdom, for example – through Krasnodar Territory, Rostov Region, Crimea and Sevastopol; or the Discover Siberia project, which covers 10 regions in the Siberian Federal District, Buryatia, and Baikal region. For lovers of outdoor activities, the Russian Geographical Society offers unique fascinating tours along the routes travelled by Russian pioneering researchers
Initiatives like this should certainly be supported. And I would ask the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of the Environment to establish practical cooperation with respected experts from the Russian Geographical Society. These people really know what is interesting, as is clear from the success of the local history projects that our branches implement with RGO grants. All the more so since this work attracts not only the teams involved, but also people who are interested in the history of the country, and we have branches throughout the country.
I would like to note that a recommendation from the Russian Geographical Society should be an additional incentive for tour operators. It would be a good idea for Rostourism [Federal Agency for Tourism] to get busy promoting their cooperation with the RGO.
In conclusion, I would like to once again thank everyone who helps the Russian Geographical Society, and certainly its tireless enthusiasts.
I would like to wish you all success. This is good, proper, useful, and very valuable work for the country. Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Environment
Science and innovation
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 23, 2019, 18:20
Text versionEvents
Visiting Severnaya Verf Shipyard
During his working trip to St Petersburg Vladimir Putin visited the Severnaya Verf Shipyard.
April 23, 2019
14:40
St Petersburg
7 of 15
The keel-laying ceremony for two Project 22350 frigates – the Admiral Amelko and the Admiral Chichagov – at the Severnaya Verf Shipyard.
The head of state took part in the keel-laying ceremony for two Project 22350 frigates – the Admiral Amelko and the Admiral Chichagov, designated for combat missions in offshore maritime zones. Along with Navy veteran, Hero of the Russian Federation Vsevolod Khmyrov the President attached the storm board on the first frigate; a commemorative plate on the second frigate was attached by Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Minister of Trade and Industry Denis Manturov.
Then, shipbuilders completed the joining of the prefabricated hull sections of the Project 20386 corvette Mercury. The corvette is designed to protect marine economic facilities.
During a videoconference, Vladimir Putin watched the keel-laying ceremony for two large landing ships – the Vasily Trushin and the Vladimir Andreyev – at the Yantar Baltic Shipyard in Kaliningrad, and the launch of the Belgorod nuclear-powered submarine at the Sevmash Production Association in Severodvinsk.
Severnaya Verf is one of Russia’s leading defence companies. Since its founding in 1912, it has built about 600 surface ships and commercial craft for the Navy and civilian fleets, including missile cruisers, air defence ships, large anti-submarine ships and destroyers, as well as passenger and cargo vessels. Today, Severnaya Verf’s portfolio of orders includes series of frigates and corvettes as well as vessels of various civilian designations. The President had a brief conversation with the plant’s workers.
* * *
Speech at the keel-laying ceremony for two Project 22350 frigates – the Admiral Amelko and the Admiral Chichagov
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, comrades, friends.
I am happy to greet all of you on this festive day. Today we will see a range of exciting events that are important for the national shipbuilding industry, for boosting the country’s defence capability, and, therefore, important for Russia as a whole. There are many events here, and it would not be an exaggeration to say that all of them highlight a new stage in the development of the country’s Navy.
The keel leying of two frigates with additional strike weapons will take place here at the Severnaya Verf in St Petersburg. Construction of two Landing craft is being launched at the Yantar Shipyard in Kaliningrad. These ships bear the names of our outstanding compatriots who glorified the Russian Navy, Admiral Chichagov, Admiral Amelko, Vladimir Andreyev and Vasily Trushin.
In addition, sections of the lead corvette Merkury, named after a heroic Black Sea Fleet ship, will be assembled here at the Severnaya Verf. A new nuclear-powered submarine, named after Belgorod, a Russian city of military glory, will be launched in Severodvinsk.
I expect the planned construction schedule to be maintained. This is of paramount importance for the ambitious plans to strengthen the Navy, to reliably defend Russia’s maritime borders and to protect our interests in the world’s oceans, both near and far.
I would like to note that Russia has been upgrading ships at a good rate in the past few years. This will remain the case as we move forward; we still have a lot to do. Therefore, we will certainly support the national shipbuilding industry; we will increase and expand its employment, research, technology and production potential.
Since 2012, the Navy has received over 80 warships and speedboats, including three strategic missile submarines, seven multirole submarines and 21 surface warships.
I would like to thank all those who are present here and who are working at other sites, including the workers, engineers and designers who create new ships and send them off to sea. I would like to thank everyone who works at facilities in St Petersburg, Kaliningrad and Severodvinsk, as well as other national shipyards. Your work proves that you can accomplish the most complex and ambitious tasks. I am confident that you will continue to do this, and that we will certainly enhance Russia’s status as a great naval power by working together.
I would like to once again congratulate everyone on today’s outstanding event. I wish you good luck and all the best. I wish successful service to the future crews of these new warships. As they say in these situations, I wish you seven feet under the keel.
Thank you.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
National security
Persons
Borisov Yury
Manturov Denis
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 23, 2019, 14:40
Text version