Events
Statement following meeting with Almazbek Atambayev
Vladimir Putin met with former President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev, after which he made a statement for the media.
July 24, 2019
19:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Answering journalists’ questions following a meeting with Almazbek Atambayev.
Question: Mr President, the news broke today that former Kyrgyz President Atambayev flew to Moscow where he scheduled a number of meetings, including at the highest level, as his aids reported. Did you met with Mr Atambayev? If so, can you disclose any details of your conversation?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: There are no secrets here. You should know that I am always open to contact with my colleagues in office, including those who have left office. Yes, I met with Mr Atambayev. We talked about the situation in the region and in Kyrgyzstan.
My position is well known, and I conveyed my position to him as well. I believe that Kyrgyzstan is our ally, a state close to us; that Kyrgyzstan has already experienced several serious internal political upheavals, specifically, there were two upheavals at least. And this should stop, to my mind, for the sake of Kyrgyz people. The country is in need of political stability and everyone should unite around the sitting President and help him in developing the state. We have many plans for cooperation with Kyrgyzstan, and there is no doubt that we will implement these plans as we work with the current leaders.
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Atambayev Almazbek
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 24, 2019, 19:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
The President held a regular meeting with Government members.
July 24, 2019
20:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
Meeting with Government members.
The meeting began with a discussion of measures to support flood victims in Irkutsk Region. Deputy Prime Minister and Chair of the Government Commission on Flood Relief Vitaly Mutko
gave a report on that subject.
Agriculture Minister Dmitry Patrushev
also reported on the harvesting campaign.
Minister of Sport Pavel Kolobkov
updated the participants on the results of the Third Russian Summer Spartakiad of the Disabled, the development of adaptive sports in Russia and preparations for the Winter Deaflympics and Summer Paralympics.
Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
spoke about preparations for 45th WorldSkills Competitions, which will begin in Kazan on August 22.
Minister of Science and Higher Education Mikhail Kotyukov
reported on the training of managerial teams at universities and research and education centres in the context of the digital economy.
Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin
and Special Presidential Representative on Digital and Technological Development Dmitry Peskov delivered reports on the main subject of the meeting – updating the system of professional qualifications with due consideration for new trade jobs.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 24, 2019, 20:20
Text versionEvents
Visit to Alexander Solzhenitsyn Museum of Russia Abroad
Vladimir Putin visited the Alexander Solzhenitsyn Museum of Russia Abroad.
July 24, 2019
16:15
Moscow
10 of 10
Visiting the Alexander Solzhenitsyn Museum of Russia Abroad. With President of the Solzhenitsyn Aid Fund Natalia Solzhenitsyna, Director of the Alexander Solzhenitsyn Museum of Russia Abroad Viktor Moskvin, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin, right, and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Central Federal District Igor Shchegolev, left.
The President, accompanied by Natalia Solzhenitsyna, examined several exhibits of the Alexander Solzhenitsyn Museum of Russia Abroad, devoted to the history of Russian emigration and the cultural heritage of compatriots abroad. Director of the Museum of Russia Abroad Viktor Moskvin described the displays.
The collection of items and documents of the Museum of Russia Abroad consists of over 18,000 exhibits. Among them are pieces of art (paintings, graphics and sculptures), photographs from private collections and archives of public organisations, household items, and printed and documentary sources.
Alexander and Natalia Solzhenitsyn started the museum’s archival collection by donating 750 unique materials collected during the years of forced emigration. The Solzhenitsyn Aid Fund, headed today by Natalia Solzhenitsyna, is a co-founder of the Museum of Russia Abroad.
Vladimir Putin made a decision to construct a new building for the Museum of Russia Abroad with additional museum space. The grand opening took place on May 28, 2019. The complex includes a museum, archive and library, as well as research, information and publishing, and cultural and educational centres.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with Natalia Solzhenitsyna, Viktor Moskvin, Sergei Sobyanin and Igor Shchegolev
President Vladimir Putin of Russia: Mrs Solzhenitsyna, once again, in the presence of our colleagues from the media, I would like to wish you a happy birthday.
I want to thank you for everything you are doing today. What you did before, when you actually edited everything that was written by Solzhenitsyn, is one thing. But you continue to do this work for all of us so we will not forget, so Alexander Solzhenitsyn’s legacy and everything that is connected with his life and work will not be forgotten.
When I was writing [making an entry into the Book of Honored Guests at the House of the Russian Expatriate Community] at the request of our colleague, I noted that Russian emigration has always been inextricably linked spiritually with the Motherland, Russia. I believe this is what makes Russian emigration special, since even being far from the Motherland, it has made and is now making a significant contribution to Russia’s spiritual life. We must be aware of this, keep this in mind and use it in our everyday work.
Again, thank you and your colleagues who take care of this house and this museum, because this is part of our history, which we should never forget in order to never repeat such mistakes. We just noted that 10 million people found themselves beyond Russia’s borders following the collapse of the Russian Empire and World War I, and another 25 million people after the collapse of the Soviet Union. These are actual people, human destinies, who represent a vast portion of our country. Such an enormous loss. We must be aware of this and understand what caused these disasters, and do our best to prevent them from ever happening again.
After all, when the country was heading for this ordeal, no one was thinking this could happen. That is the worst part. But when it happens, it is too late to try to take things back. Many things get lost forever. Much of what is lost is, indeed, lost forever.
Thank you very much for preserving this historical memory, for us to remember it, especially, younger people, and for promoting the very best that was written by Alexander Solzhenitsyn, especially among young people.
Once again, happy birthday.
<…>
See also
Congratulations to Natalya Solzhenitsyna on her birthday
July 22, 2019
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 24, 2019, 16:15
Text version