Events
Meeting with representatives of business circles of Russia and the UAE
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan took part in a meeting with representatives of business circles of Russia and the UAE .
October 15, 2019
18:00
Abu Dhabi
Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
(retranslated): Mr President, Your Excellency,
We are glad to once again welcome you in your second homeland, the United Arab Emirates.
We would like to note that we do our utmost to develop our bilateral relations. This visit of yours is clear proof of our deep friendship and strategic partnership that connect the Russian Federation and the United Arab Emirates.
We are also glad to welcome representatives of the two countries’ largest economic operators, who make their contribution to strengthening and promoting bilateral strategic partnership, here at this table.
Russia-UAE relations have been growing significantly and developing in all areas in recent years. We would like to reaffirm our strong wish to strengthen and expand these relations in the interests of our nations.
During my last visit to Moscow, we discussed issues related to the development and expansion of economic and investment cooperation between Russia and the UAE. Today we will hear reports from several representatives of large businesses who will talk about new trends and new aspects in these relations, as well as new goals and tasks for the future.
I would like to note the high level of cooperation with the Russian Direct Investment Fund, with which we have built a truly strategic investment partnership.
We highly value our achievements in various spheres. We believe that friendship and strategic partnership between our countries serve as reliable guarantees of the successful development and expansion of our cooperation.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, colleagues,
Let me welcome all the representatives of Russia and the UAE who are here today.
I believe it is very important to discuss Russian-UAE trade, investment and business cooperation. I have just had talks with Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, where we focused on bilateral economic cooperation.
The United Arab Emirates is Russia’s key trading partner in the Persian Gulf region and in the Middle East in general. Last year, trade grew almost four percent and reached $1.7 billion.
We have also succeeded in the investment sphere. The Mubadala Investment Company was among the first partners of the Russian Direct Investment Fund; over 45 projects worth $2.3 billion in total have already been implemented. The profit from them is significantly higher – sometimes three times as high – than the global standards. Investment is made in petrochemistry, transport and medicine.
Today we have made new deals; the projects are worth about $1.4 billion, and cooperation encompasses different areas. We are doing and will do everything necessary to help investors, including from the UAE, feel comfortable on our market.
There are new opportunities in digital technology, telecommunications, logistics, transport, finance, banking and, of course, energy. Let me note the effective work done by the joint enterprise of Gazprom Neft and Mubadala Petroleum to develop fields in the Tomsk and Omsk regions of Russia. LUKOIL is beginning to cooperate with the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company and has joined the oil and gas concession on the UAE shelf.
Our friends in the Emirates can count on Russia’s cooperation in developing nuclear power generation. Rosatom offers its unique capacities, experience and advanced technology, which meet the highest standards, including in security.
Industrial cooperation is also expanding. We welcome our UAE friends as shareholders of the company that produces Aurus luxury cars.
We are ready to step up our cooperation in agriculture. Russia can cover the UAE market’s demand for agricultural products and food, such as meat, including halal meat, and grains.
We are ready to continue joint work in space exploration.
Colleagues, friends, I have only outlined part of the wide range of opportunities for cooperation. We hope that Russian and UAE businesspeople will continue to develop their mutually beneficial trade and economic cooperation. The Russian government will fully support you.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
See also
State visit to the United Arab Emirates
October 15, 2019
Details on visit to United Arab Emirates
October 15, 2019
Persons
Al Nahyan Mohammed bin Zayed
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2019, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Russian-UAE talks
In the Qasr Al Watan Palace Vladimir Putin held talks with Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
October 15, 2019
13:30
Abu Dhabi
1 of 10
Russian-UAE talks.
Crown Prince of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the United Arab Emirates Armed Forces Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan (retranslated): First, I would like to welcome His Excellency Mr President of the Russian Federation. It is a heartfelt welcome to the second country you are visiting – the United Arab Emirates. I would like to extend warm brotherly greetings from President of the United Arab Emirates His Highness Sheikh Al Nahyan.
We very much appreciate the high- and top-level visits that our countries have exchanged in recent years. I would like to emphasise the importance and the scope of strategic relations between the United Arab Emirates and the Russian Federation and also to reaffirm that our country prioritises the efforts to promote a dialogue and relations with Russia. Our countries maintain friendly relations, as well as diverse cooperation in all areas, which has yielded tangible fruit and includes positive economic indicators.
Dear brother and friend, I am happy to meet with you after more than a year since our last meeting in Moscow. I consider Russia to be my second home and I would like to once again thank you for the warm reception.
I would also like to express my gratitude to you for your commitment to strengthen the bonds of friendship and cooperation that we are tied together by – a friendship that exists between the peoples of the two countries and the governments of the two countries, as well as the personal friendship between the leaders of the two countries.
The United Arab Emirates is honoured that you are visiting this country and it is a historical visit. We would also like to reaffirm that our two countries are tied together by deep strategic relations. The United Arab Emirates sees brotherly, friendly and strategic relations with Russia as a priority.
Mr President, we welcome and appreciate our mutual desire to bring bilateral relations to the strategic partnership level. This agrees with our common vision and our common concept and, in keeping with this vision, we are poised to further strengthen this strategic partnership in the interests of our countries and peoples.
Mr President, I would like to praise the outcome of the 9th Russian-UAE Intergovernmental Commission Meeting, which was held ahead of your visit. I would also like to thank the Russian Government for its successful efforts to hold the third edition of Aqdar World Summit in September 2019.
Also, Mr President, I would like to express my gratitude and appreciation for your support for the project that the United Arab Emirates sees as a historical one – the space expedition, in which the first cosmonaut from the United Arab Emirates, Hazza Al Mansouri, took part. Sending the first ever cosmonaut from the United Arab Emirates to the International Space Station is a historical achievement that had long been a dream of the founder of our country Sheikh Zayed and it has come true.
Mr President, dear friend and brother, I would like to yet again welcome you and the high-level delegation that is accompanying you. Hopefully, this visit will leave a deep impression and will be a qualitative breakthrough in developing our strategic partnership and taking it to a new level. I am also looking forward to meeting you again before too long.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, friends,
First of all, I would like to thank you for this invitation. I am really delighted to be once again in the hospitable land of the United Arab Emirates. I could see from the window of the car I was being driven in for the short journey from the airport how quickly your country is developing and how it is looking better and better.
Relations between Russia and the United Arab Emirates continue to develop successfully in a friendly and constructive manner in accordance with the Declaration on Strategic Partnership signed in Moscow back in 2018. We are expanding ties in the trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian fields and we are maintaining close coordination on major global and regional affairs, primarily regarding Syria, Libya, Yemen and the situation in the Gulf.
Our political dialogue is regular and substantial. Our foreign ministers are in close contact. We have developed cooperation between our security councils, special services and defence ministries. I would like to ask you to convey my best regards and to wish good health to the President of your country, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. 
We continue developing trade, economic and investment cooperation. Last year our trade amounted to $1.7 billion, having increased by 3.6 percent.
We are grateful for your personal support of the partnership between the Russian Direct Investment Fund and the Mubadala Investment Company that are jointly investing in the Russian economy. These investments have already reached $2.3 billion. Your Russian partners are not letting you down: profits from these investments are much higher than on the markets of other countries.
We continue investing and cooperating in start-ups, in the energy sector and in the peaceful nuclear development. We continue coordinating our efforts and policy on the global hydrocarbon market, in part, owing to the OPEC plus agreement.
We are now working together in the car industry. Our cooperation in space exploration has reached a new level. I would like to congratulate you once again on the successful flight of the first astronaut from the UAE to the International Space Station. This event became possible owing to our friendship and your efforts to promote this idea. We are ready to continue rendering the necessary assistance to the United Arab Emirates in space exploration, including in such fields as satellite navigation and launching space vehicles into space.
We are developing humanitarian ties. The UAE is a popular destination for Russian tourists. Last year the tourist flow increased by 23 percent. According to the Central Bank of Russia, our tourists spent over $1.3 billion in the Emirates, which is comparable with the scale of our trade. Mutual exemption of visa requirements is designed to expand contacts between our citizens. This intergovernmental agreement was signed at your initiative and entered into force last February. We will continue moving in this direction.
Thank you.
<…>
See also
State visit to the United Arab Emirates
October 15, 2019
Additional
Details on visit to United Arab Emirates
October 15, 2019
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: October 15, 2019, 13:30
Text version