Events
Meeting with members of the public
During his trip to Adygeya, Vladimir Putin met with members of the public to discuss the development of agriculture and rural areas in Russia.
December 23, 2019
18:40
Sups, Republic of Adygeya
1 of 3
During his trip to Adygeya, Vladimir Putin met with members of the public to discuss the development of agriculture and rural areas in Russia.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
On December 26, Moscow will host a special State Council meeting on agriculture development.
So, I wanted to take my trip to one of the agricultural regions to talk with those who work the land, so that before I meet with my colleagues, with the regional leaders and industry leaders, I can listen to what you have to say on this subject, how you see the development of the industry and its individual areas, and which positive aspects, in your view, need to be developed and supported.
What you would like to draw our attention to, meaning that something may not be working so far or may not work as efficiently as we would like it to. Or you would like to point out those issues that concern you so that I can address them to my colleagues in Moscow on December 26.
But first, I must say that thanks to your efforts, to those who work in the rural regions, the industry as a whole is developing at a very good pace. While economic growth is 1.3 percent, agricultural growth is 4.1 percent. To a certain extent, this even acts as a driver for the development of the entire economy.
Agriculture in Russia not only provides the country with all the basic foodstuffs, but it is also working rather efficiently for exports. In 2018, exports totalled almost $26 billion. It was hard to even imagine this a few years ago. It seemed impossible. But all this is happening thanks to your efforts and those of your colleagues.
We will continue to implement the state programme for agriculture development. And next year, we will launch a new programme for the development of rural areas, you probably know about this. The amount of funding is very large – more than 2 trillion, with 1 trillion directly from the federal budget to various areas of agriculture.
This is what I wanted to say first. The goal of our meeting today is to listen to you. This does not mean that I will answer all your questions now, because they can be quite complex and specific. I will do what I can do, but mainly, I would like to listen to you in order to use this information in my work on December 26 in Moscow.
<…>
See also
Visiting Zeleny Dom agricultural enterprise
December 23, 2019
Geography
Republic of Adygeya
Topics
Agriculture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 23, 2019, 18:40
Text versionEvents
Crimean Bridge opened to railway traffic
The President took part in the opening of the Crimean Bridge to railway traffic. Vladimir Putin ordered, via videoconference, the departure of the Tavria express passenger train from St Petersburg to Sevastopol.
December 23, 2019
14:30
Taman – Kerch
9 of 15
At the departure ceremony of the Tavria express passenger train from St Petersburg to Sevastopol, which will be the first to travel to the Crimean Peninsula via the Crimean Bridge.
Before the opening ceremony, the President rode along the bridge in the train driver’s cabin, inspected the entire railway section and also spoke with the bridge builders.
Vladimir Putin also familiarized himself with the information on the development of transport infrastructure in the south of Russia, in particular the Crimean Railway.
The 19-km Crimean Bridge is the longest bridge in Russia and Europe. Starting on the Taman Peninsula, it runs along a 5-km long dam and Tuzla Island, crosses the Kerch Strait and ends on the Crimean coast. The bridge ensures uninterrupted traffic between Crimea and other Russian regions.
The transport crossing consists of a motorway and a railway running parallel to each other. The bridge’s motorway section opened in May 2018, and freight traffic was launched in the autumn of 2018. There are plans to start operating freight trains in the summer of 2020.
* * *
Speech at the opening of Crimean Bridge to railway traffic
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Today we have a pleasant and a very important occasion. It is important for Crimea, Sevastopol, the entire south of Russia and the whole of Russia, because, of course, such infrastructure facilities as this tremendous bridge will influence the entire economy.
However, I would like to tell you that today, we are not launching the traffic but restoring it, because originally train traffic to St Petersburg – and the first train will be from St Petersburg to Sevastopol – was launched 145 years ago.
Over the course of Russian history, this train service has been interrupted only three times: during the 1917 October Revolution, during the Great Patriotic War and in 2014. You have restored it, although, the route is different, but it is a solid and reliable route. Congratulations on this. This is a great occasion.
You know, there is also another important thing: not just that millions of cars have used the bridge since it was opened or that millions of passengers will travel this way next year. This is also a great occasion. Almost 14 million passengers and 13 million tonnes of cargo are expected next year.
There is something more important. It is more important that your hard work, talent, perseverance and determination have proven that Russia is capable of implementing infrastructure projects at the global level. This is not just the largest bridge in Russia, but also the longest in Europe.
You have shown that we can carry out such large-scale projects using our own technological base. Without exaggeration, this gives almost everyone confidence that we will be able to implement such projects in the future.
Thank you very much for your persistence and your talent, thanks to everyone: builders, engineers, scientists, archeologists and environmentalists. This is a great, enormous and powerful team uniting people from all across Russia from the Far East to its European part.
I congratulate you on this occasion and wish you success and all the best. Happy New Year!
Broadcast of the Tavria express passenger train leaving St Petersburg for Sevastopol.
Good luck on your journey!
See also
Opening of Crimean Bridge motorway section
May 15, 2018
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 23, 2019, 14:30
Text version