Events
Open lesson as part of ProyeKTOriya Forum
Vladimir Putin took part in the School of Tomorrow national open lesson held as part of the ProyeKTOriya career guidance forum, via teleconference.
November 26, 2019
14:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 11
Vladimir Putin took part in the School of Tomorrow national open lesson held as part of the ProyeKTOriya career guidance forum, via teleconference.
The annual forum which has been held since 2013 brings together experts from major Russian companies and higher education institutions, the best national educators and well-motivated school students in order to address topical matters in the area of career guidance and self-determination. The open lesson involves teams of school students and teachers who won a competition for the best career guidance practices.
Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
and Minister of Education Olga Vasilyeva
are also taking part in the event.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Yana [Yana Churikova, Co-Chair of the Russian Movement of School Students], good afternoon everyone! I am very happy to see you all here.
Unfortunately, I was unable to visit Yaroslavl this year, but I would like to sincerely greet those who gathered in this wonderful ancient Russian city.
I would like to say that this is a highly important annual event. I want to note that, indeed, year after year, ProyeKTOriya and other similar programmes effectively help young people to choose the most attractive careers that they like and find their place in life, without making any mistakes. This is extremely crucial for all of you and for the entire country…
As you well know, we are standing on the threshold of serious changes. Russia and the entire world are standing on the threshold of drastic changes linked with state-of-the-art technologies which are changing the world at a breath-taking pace and right before our very own eyes.
And, of course, it is of great importance that young people should choose fields where they can prove their worth, where they can score top results and unlock their potential for the benefit of their families, their friends and the entire country.
This year alone, 250,000 young people enrolled at major national enterprises and companies dealing with innovations, including new materials, medicine, unmanned transport systems, artificial intelligence and biology in the broadest sense of the word, including genetic research.
All this is so important that it will determine the future of this country – not just your own future but also that of your children and grandchildren. All this is so popular today that, of course, I would like to thank your parents and instructors.
Yana, I would like to thank you for devoting so much attention to this work.
Thank you very much, and I wish you every success.
<…>
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 26, 2019, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Alexander Novak and Alexei Miller
November 26, 2019
15:35
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
4 of 4
With Energy Minister Alexander Novak (left) and Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller.
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Energy Minister Alexander Novak
and Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
to discuss the readiness of the national energy system for the winter period.
The Russian-Ukrainian cooperation in the energy sector was discussed separately.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
I would like to discuss several issues with you. The first one is the operation of the energy sector in winter.
As you know and as you can see, there have been breakdowns at the regional level, unfortunately, and this creates many problems for the people living there.
I will speak with the heads of these regions later, but now I would like to hear your reports on how the big energy fares and how it works in winter. Winter has come almost everywhere across the country.
The second issue: you have probably noticed that yesterday I had a telephone conversation with the President of Ukraine, and it was mainly on our relations in the energy sector. I would like to talk to you about this.
Energy Minister Alexander Novak: Mr President,
Preparations for the autumn and winter are being made year-round, and it is the most important part of our work.
As of today, heating is definitely on in all regions. The Energy Ministry is constantly monitoring the process and interacting with all the companies.
We are supervising 900 facilities in the power industry: about 400 power plants with a capacity of more than 25 megawatts (thermal power plants, hydroelectric power plants, and nuclear power plants) and about 500 grid facilities. The largest company, of course, is Rosseti.
All major backbone companies have been winterised and obtained their winter certificates. On November 15, we reviewed preparations for the winter, put together the necessary material and technical resources, fuel reserves, and started a repair and maintenance campaign which is 99 percent complete as of today.
About 50,000 stand-by power supply sources have been created to cover process failures. We also cleaned up forest corridors as scheduled.
This year, as much as 7,700 megawatts of power will go online, which will help us upgrade fixed assets and, of course, increase reliability.
Vladimir Putin: As compared to last year?
Alexander Novak: Last year, it was around 4,000 megawatts.
Vladimir Putin: And now?
Alexander Novak: Almost twice as much, 7,700 megawatts. Of course, this is a major achievement. We would also like to thank you for supporting the mechanism that allows us to raise investment in the power industry.
We have introduced 30,000 megawatts of capacity through this mechanism in the past seven years. Today, in accordance with your instruction and the Executive Order, a comprehensive infrastructure upgrade programme is underway which will allow us, within a decade, to attract investment of about 2 trillion rubles for upgrading generating equipment that has been in service for many years and is now worn out. This will allow us to replace fixed assets.
We are focusing particularly on Crimea, Kaliningrad, the Irkutsk power system, which was hit by the flood, and the Far Eastern Federal District. Here, we are working case-by-case with the regions and regional headquarters.
We do not have any problems right now with regard to our main electric power facilities, the grid complex, or the generating complex. Preparations went off as scheduled.
Of course, we do this work on a daily basis and monitor the situation. In case of process failure, we, in conjunction with the companies, do our best to restore energy supply as soon as possible.
Winter has already set in and in some regions, for example the Tver Region, the weather is pretty bad. Winter preparations substantially reduced the time needed for restoration following power system disturbances.
As for individual facilities, some thermal power plants are short of coal and heating oil in the Irkutsk Region and the Sakha (Yakutia) Republic. We are helping these regions and their companies acquire the necessary reserves.
Winter has just arrived…
Vladimir Putin: What about Murmansk?
Alexander Novak: The power outages in Murmansk were due to bad weather. But this happens every autumn and winter. That said, our companies quickly restored the power. We do not have any problems with emergency repair teams or material or technical resources. They can be mobilised in no time and energy distribution is promptly restored, for residential consumers first.
Vladimir Putin: (Addressing Alexei Miller.) What about your company?
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller: Mr President,
Preparing for the autumn-winter season, we conducted eleven sets of planned pre-emptive repairs at gas supply facilities and networks. About 72,232 million cubic metres of gas have been pumped into underground storage facilities.
Daily capacity at the beginning of the withdrawing period totalled 843 million cubic metres of gas per day. This is a historical record – 31 million cubic metres a day more than during the previous autumn-winter period.
The unified gas supply system is ready for the autumn-winter season, and the required gas reserves have been amassed.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
See also
Statement for the press by Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
November 26, 2019
Additional
Telephone conversation with President of Ukraine Vladimir Zelensky
November 25, 2019
Topics
Energy
Persons
Miller Alexei
Novak Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 26, 2019, 15:35
Text versionEvents
Statement for the press by Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
November 26, 2019
16:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller: Following the President’s instruction, Gazprom has already sent Ukraine an official proposal to sign a new gas transit contract or extend the existing one and to sign a contract for gas supplies to Ukraine.
Ukraine is currently transitioning to European legislation, and there may be a number of problems in this context. In particular, Ukraine needs to establish an independent gas transport operator that must be certified.
However, this company has not yet been certified. Applications to book transit capacity must be submitted within the predetermined deadlines.
These are, of course, technical problems, but they are very important and must be resolved as soon as possible.
See also
Meeting with Alexander Novak and Alexei Miller
November 26, 2019
Topics
Energy
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 26, 2019, 16:45
Text version