Events
International Volunteer Forum
Vladimir Putin attended the International Volunteer Forum and took part in a ceremony for presenting the Volunteer of Russia 2019 award.
December 5, 2019
15:30
Sochi
18 of 19
The Volunteer of Russia 2019 award ceremony. With Inessa Klyukina, winner of the Volunteer of the Year award for her project, The E-Motion Creative Inclusive Studio. Photo: Mikhail Metzel, TASS
The International Volunteer Forum is being held in Sochi from December 2 to 5 and is timed to International Volunteer Day marked on December 5. The event has brought together over 7,500 participants from Russia and other countries.
Vladimir Putin talked to the leaders of the volunteer movement, who told the President about their projects. Tatyana Avdeyeva spoke about the initiative to provide paramedical services to homeless people. Her project, The Other Medicine, is being implemented in Chelyabinsk. Maria Igonina, a volunteer with Russia's search movement, briefed the President on the searchers’ activity and plans to begin a new search season in April, ahead of Victory Day. The student-founded Memory Watch will be held near Kerch in Crimea.
The Russian Popular Front presented a new format of processing the questions received by Direct Line operators. Volunteers who are engaged in this activity told the President about a 96-year-old veteran from Yeisk, who wanted to attend the Victory Parade. The President invited the veteran to the event. In addition, volunteers spoke about questions regarding the recalculation of mortgage rates for families with children and about providing consultations on this issue.
Grigory Sergeyev, chairman of the Liza Alert search-and-rescue movement, spoke about the movement’s activity. He said that in the nine-year history of the project, its members have conducted over 62,000 searches, with 49,000 of them resulting in finding people alive.
This year, the President again joined the volunteer campaign The New Year Tree of Wishes: at the stand of the Dream with Me charity project, Vladimir Putin and the volunteer movement leaders randomly picked a New Year tree decoration that contains a wish to fulfil.
Vladimir Putin also met with students of the Sirius Educational Centre. He heard about the projects of Russian and Indian school students who took part in the international programme, “Big Challenges of Sustainable Development” Russian-Indian Autumn Project School. A participant from India told the President about the project on a unique eco-friendly nuclear energy source and a Russian student spoke about a robotised monitoring system for tea plantations. In total, 25 Indian and 25 Russian students working on research and engineering projects in five fields are taking part in the programme.
The Forum’s programme includes the award ceremony of the Volunteer of Russia 2019 contest. The main prize has been awarded to Inessa Klyukina for her project, The E-Motion Creative Inclusive Studio. Vladimir Putin presented the award.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Greetings on International Volunteer Day!
I am always – always – happy to meet with you and I will tell you why. Interacting with people like you makes any person kinder and better, and this relates to me as well.
I just met with your colleagues (some of whom probably managed to get here). Naturally, you deal with all kinds of issues, including assisting the elderly, helping children who need your moral support and working in hospices. You renovate cultural landmarks, our cultural heritage, and protect the environment. You also support our veterans, which is very important, especially ahead of the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. All of this is very important.
But here is what I think: this kind of activity is important everywhere and at all times, but especially today. Why? Because we are experiencing rapid technological development, a new technological revolution. It seems that artificial intelligence can replace humans everywhere. And this term itself, AI, is quite popular today.
True, it can be more efficient than people in some areas, but it is artificial. It does not have what people have: it has no heart, no soul, no sympathy. And you, all of you, you have it. You have a lot of it, and it is very valuable to us because this is the foundation of the existence of humans and all humankind.
We are now in Sochi, where the volunteer movement in Russia got a powerful boost during the Sochi Winter Olympics. There are currently over 15 million volunteers in our country; this is a huge army.
Of course, volunteers do not seek gain, but it is traditional to give presents on holidays. I would like to inform you that it has been decided to double the grant for the Volunteer of Russia contest.
I wish you a happy holiday and all the best. Thank you very much.
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2019, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh in Sochi.
December 5, 2019
17:00
Sochi
1 of 7
With Prime Minister of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister,
Welcome. I am very glad to meet with you again.
Our relations have been developing consistently and steadily. Last year, trade grew by 21 percent, and by another 15 over the first 8–9 months of this year. In addition, our relations continue to diversify, and this is a good sign. They cover engineering, agriculture, mineral fertiliser and, of course, energy. Gazprom has begun to supply liquefied natural gas. Rosneft covers 80 percent of the demand for oil products. Electricity is supplied, too. Agriculture plays an important role in our bilateral trade.
Speaking about energy, we have good opportunities for development, including with third countries. And, of course, Mr Prime Minister, we are ready to promote Mongolia’s dialogue with the Eurasian Economic Union. I know that our Mongolian friends are interested in this dialogue.
I know you have a busy programme in Russia. I am sure that your visit will help develop our bilateral relations.
Thank you.
Prime Minister of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh
(retranslated): Thank you, Mr President.
I am very glad to have the chance to meet with you again today.
I would like to pass on the sincerest and warmest greetings from President of Mongolia Khaltmaagiin Battulga.
I would also like to tell you that Mongolians are very pleased that you attached such importance to the local celebrations of the 80th anniversary of the joint victory in the Battle of Khalkhin Gol and went to Mongolia on an official visit to pay tribute to that historical deed of our fathers and grandfathers.
We are also grateful that, following your visit, the status of Russian-Mongolian relations was upgraded to that of friendship and comprehensive strategic partnership. I am pleased to tell you that recently our parliament, the State Great Khural, ratified this treaty on friendly relations and comprehensive strategic partnership.
I fully agree with your opinion that our countries and peoples have enjoyed traditionally friendly relations for many years. In addition, soon we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. I am glad to have the chance to come to Russia on an official visit as Prime Minister of Mongolia on the eve of this important occasion.
Two days ago, I had very fruitful and successful talks with Dmitry Medvedev. We discussed a wide range of issues related to our bilateral relations and cooperation. We coordinated our positions on several issues that had been waiting for a decision for a very long time. During our talks with the Prime Minister of Russia, we discussed issues related to our countries’ cooperation in energy, oil product supplies, gas pipeline construction and other strategic areas of our bilateral relations and cooperation. Of course, we also discussed the further development of our ties in humanitarian areas, in culture and education.
Following my visit, 12 documents were signed, which will serve as the further legal basis for our cooperation. These documents were concluded between our governments, agencies and private companies.
Mongolians respect and remember well that Russians have always cared, supported and helped us during the dark years of our history due to our friendly relations.
I would also like to note that recently the Russian-Mongolian Intergovernmental Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific and Technical Cooperation has been working more actively and fruitfully.
<…>
Geography
Mongolia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Khurelsukh Ukhnaagiin
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2019, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and heads of defence industry enterprises
The President held the final meeting in a series of meetings on the development of the Armed Forces and the defence industry.
December 5, 2019
18:50
Sochi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today is our final meeting in this December series of meetings with the leadership of the Defence Ministry and other departments, as well as defence industry enterprises. We have considered the key targets for the development of the Russian Navy. We discussed with the heads of the defence industry enterprises their progress on the state defence order, primarily as concerns building, modernising, repairing and servicing the weaponry and equipment for the Navy.
We specifically focused on the implementation of instructions given during the May meetings, including the one to expand the orbital group of military and dual-purpose spacecraft and increase their capabilities.
Our current agenda includes the development and implementation of advanced technologies, including AI-based solutions. As I have already noted, these days they are widely used to create modern types of weapons and equipment, robotic systems, weapons based on innovative physical principles that will largely determine the future of our Army and Navy.
We need to comprehensively analyse and evaluate the test results of promising weapons systems. Successful research and development in the aforementioned high-tech areas are of crucial importance for the development of civilian sector, for increasing the competitiveness of the national science, and creating advanced industries and infrastructure for the digital economy.
Today, we will also discuss measures to counter potential threats stemming from the United States’ withdrawal from the INF Treaty.
To reiterate, Russia is not interested in launching an arms race or deploying missiles in environments where no missiles are currently deployed. As you may be aware, we announced a unilateral moratorium on deploying such missiles and invited our colleagues in Europe and the United States to join in. So far, only the President of the French Republic, Mr Macron, has responded. There is no response from our other partners. This forces us to take measures to counter these threats.
By the way, we are all well aware of the fact that the United States unilaterally withdrew from another major treaty on limiting missile defence systems from 2002. They acted in a straightforward manner back then and took responsibility for this step and did not even try to shift the blame to Russia. This was fairly difficult to do back then, it seemed.
Now, they have also withdrawn from that unilaterally, but as we can see, attempts are being made to shift the responsibility onto us. This position has no grounds whatsoever, but nevertheless, the attempt is being made.
The New START treaty, which expires soon, is another item on the disarmament agenda. All of our proposals to renew this treaty are on the table. So far, we have not received any response from our partners. In this regard, I would like to reiterate our position: Russia is willing to immediately, as soon as possible, before the year is out, renew this treaty without any preconditions. I am stating this officially so that there are no double or triple interpretations of our position later on.
We will discuss today ways to oppose any unfriendly step, and the best and the least expensive operational decisions.
Let's get to work.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and heads of defence industry enterprises
December 4, 2019
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials and defence industry executives
December 3, 2019
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials and defence industry top executives
December 2, 2019
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 5, 2019, 18:50
Text version