Events
Meeting with Acting Governor of Orenburg Region Denis Pasler
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Acting Governor of Orenburg Region Denis Pasler to discuss the socioeconomic situation in the region.
August 8, 2019
14:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Denis Pasler
, who has been serving as Acting Governor of Orenburg Region since March 21, briefed the President on efforts to address matters related to employment and job opportunities for local residents. In particular, Ormeto-YUMZ, a major heavy engineering company that used to employ almost 3,000 people but has been idle since 2018, carried out a test launch and started steel melting. It is to launch its forge and press shop within the next several days. The company has already secured orders, and plans to welcome back 800 to 1,000 people. Other companies in the region will benefit from efforts of this kind, including 10 enterprises that are in a similar situation. A roadmap has been drawn up to find prospective investors for five companies that went into bankruptcy.
The President offered to facilitate efforts to overcome challenges in reviving manufacturing.
The President and the Acting Governor also discussed initiatives to build schools and roads and renovate hospitals.
Specifically, Mr Pasler said that the design plan to build a children’s regional hospital as part of a national project is expected to be completed in September and construction should begin next year. Additional funds will be allocated next year for designing five or six outpatient clinics that would meet all the relevant standards and technological requirements. The regional hospital is also in need of assistance and support. Renovation and modernisation of its outpatient clinic is about to be completed so that it opens before the end of August.
During the meeting, the President and the Acting Governor also discussed the construction of the Viktor Chernomyrdin (1938 – 2010) memorial complex and educational centre in Cherny Otrog, Orenburg Region, the home village of this prominent Soviet and Russian politician.
Geography
Orenburg Region
Topics
Healthcare
Industry
Regions
Social services
Persons
Pasler Denis
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 8, 2019, 14:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Volgograd Region Governor Andrei Bocharov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Volgograd Region Governor Andrei Bocharov to discuss, among other things, the agricultural situation in the region.
August 8, 2019
13:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
With Volgograd Region Governor Andrei Bocharov.
Andrei Bocharov
informed the President that over four million tonnes of grain had already been harvested in the region. Due to the President’s support for the proposal to expand the state support of melioration, processing and storage back in 2014, the vegetable group, including melons, has been completely stabilised, and the harvest has reached one million tonnes for three years in a row. There are good prospects for development.
According to the Governor, the volume of reclaimed land has increased by half. The decisions made in 2014 brought about an increase in the export and processing of agricultural products. About 80 percent of oil crops are processed in Volgograd Region, compared to only 20 percent back in 2014. The region is expected to reach 100 percent this year and the next. About 50 percent of vegetables are processed, and the processing of corn is soon to reach 70 percent.
Mr Bocharov reminded the President of the meeting of the State Council Presidium he held in August 2016 on the sanitation of the Volga River and the Volgo-Akhtubinskaya flood plain. The implementation of the unique large-scale project to revitalise the flood plain and fill it with water has already begun. The project is primarily aimed at improving environmental security and creating favourable conditions for life. It involves not only Volgograd Region, but also the whole of southern Russia as far as Astrakhan and the Caspian Sea.
The project will also help create favourable conditions for arid lands, which are home to more than 500,000 people in Volgograd Region alone. It will give an additional boost to the development of the agro-industrial complex. It is planned that vegetable production will be doubled, reaching two million tonnes. The Governor also asked Vladimir Putin for additional presidential support in addressing issues related to processing and storage of produce.
The discussion also touched upon the development of the pharmaceutical cluster, which will soon be fully operational, the establishment of an oncology centre and issues related to emergency medical aid across Volgograd Region.
Geography
Volgograd Region
Topics
Agriculture
Regions
Persons
Bocharov Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 8, 2019, 13:10
Text version