Events
Meeting with FIFA President Gianni Infantino
Vladimir Putin met with President of International Federation of Association Football (FIFA) Gianni Infantino at the Kremlin. They discussed issues related to making effective use of the legacy of the 2018 FIFA World Cup held in Russia.
February 20, 2019
15:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 4
FIFA President Gianni Infantino.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Infantino, it is a pleasure to see you.
We are currently engaged in active work on the World Cup legacy. I would like to thank you once again for your help in preparing and holding the World Cup. As you may know, I have signed an Executive Order awarding you the Order of Friendship of the Russian Federation to thank you for this collaborative work.
This event is not only important for Russia. Above all, it is important for the young people, for the upcoming generation, because people are getting involved in sports. We have discussed this many times.
Today we are facing a different task: to use everything that was done for the World Cup and to use it effectively; and here we are counting on your support too.
I am very happy to have this chance to discuss all of this with you.
FIFA President Gianni Infantino: Thank you very much, Mr President.
(In Russian.) Thank you very much.
(In English.) It is of course a great pleasure to be back here in Moscow and to meet you.
The honour that you award me is an incredible, unbelievable honour for me. And, of course, I want to say clearly that this is an honour for the whole football movement as well.
And I can just repeat that we witnessed last year the best World Cup ever, here in Russia. Once and for all, we have finished all this negative prejudice that existed because instead of all the bad predictions we experienced a wonderful event with a country that is beautiful and that welcomed the world to celebrate here in Russia. So I think football has transformed Russia a little bit maybe but certainly the way the world is looking at Russia. And it was only possible thanks to the work from yourself and all the Russian people who contributed to this incredible success.
But it is not the end of it; it is actually the beginning of a new story. And we are here to discuss the legacy and to continue working together very closely. Thank you very much.
<…>
Topics
Sport
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 20, 2019, 15:50
Text version