Events
Meeting on establishing cultural and educational centres in Russian regions
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on the creation of cultural, educational and museum centres in Vladivostok, Kaliningrad, Kemerovo and Sevastopol.
January 8, 2019
16:30
Kaliningrad
8 of 10
Meeting on the creation of cultural and educational centres in Russian regions. Photo: Mikhail Metzel, TASS
The President set the goal to create theatre, concert, museum and educational centres in the Russian regions in his Address to the Federal Assembly in 2018, with details codified in the Presidential Executive Order On National Goals and Strategic Objectives of the Russian Federation Until 2024. The meeting was attended by members of the Government, regional leaders, and cultural and art workers.
Before the meeting, Vladimir Putin studied models of the cultural and educational centres under construction. In particular, the President examined the projects of the Kaliningrad Opera and Ballet Theatre, the Higher School of Music and Theatre Arts, museum and theater education centres, a cultural centre in Vladivostok, an educational centre on Russky Island and a dance academy in Sevastopol.
The President was also shown a computer simulation of the future development of the arts quarter in Kemerovo. Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets
, Governor of Kaliningrad Region Anton Alikhanov
, Governor of Primorye Territory Oleg Kozhemyako
, Governor of Sevastopol Dmitry Ovsyannikov
, Governor of Kemerovo Region Sergei Tsivilev
provided details and updates on the projects.
* * *
Remarks at meeting on creating cultural and educational centres in Russian regions
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
As you know, a very important goal to create theatre, concert, museum and educational centres in the Russian regions was set in last year’s Address to the Federal Assembly.
Valery Gergiev is “to blame” for this because he actually got quite involved in the Far East and Vladivostok, at my request. And Mikhail Piotrovsky also spoke repeatedly about trying to do exhibitions in different regions, including exhibits in the vaults. But, unfortunately, the regions generally lack appropriate facilities for working at the proper level. This is where the idea came from – the idea of creating cultural and educational centres in the regions.
These large centres of public life and education should be accessible to people of all ages, both older and younger generations, according to their interests and needs. It is especially important, of course, to keep in mind young people. Cultural centres should include concert facilities, museum and exhibition areas, and provide premises for branches of our leading theatres, museums, and art schools.
The development of such centres has been designated as one of the priorities of the Culture national project. We thoroughly discussed the general guidelines for the forthcoming work in December at the Council for Culture and Art. All the substantive proposals made at that meeting will definitely be taken into account, especially since their authors will become direct participants, partners of the programme for establishing such centres.
Once again, I would like to emphasise their enormous significance: to uncover the cultural and educational potential of our regions, to form a modern cultural space across the Russian Federation, that is, to ensure the harmonious development of society and the self-realisation of its members.
This self-realisation phrase is certainly a cliché. But what is it really about? It is about the lives of our people, of Russian families living in various regions. What does it mean? An opportunity to see the world’s masterpieces kept in our leading museums, a lot of them in the storerooms, to see performances with leading actors, because they will have the opportunity to stage productions and participate in them.
It also means education, teaching children – something entirely mundane at first glance. It is one thing when a family has such an opportunity, potentially, or at least an understanding that this is possible; it is quite a different situation when this is missing. The project changes life in the region in a fundamental way.
The demand for real high culture is certainly growing every year, and this trend, of course, needs to be supported. A rich cultural life, bright creative events, and opportunities to reveal their talents should be available to everyone in any region of our country.
We have already decided on the cities where the first cultural and educational centres will be built. These are Kaliningrad, Kemerovo, Vladivostok and Sevastopol.
Today I propose discussing some practical issues of the project’s implementation. It is important that from the very beginning, from the first steps we take into account all aspects: technological, organisational, financial, architectural, construction and, of course, staffing. First of all, I would like to hear about the progress on each of these projects. The governors have just told me about it in general terms. Now I think we have an opportunity to discuss this in greater detail. I would like to hear what has been done, whether there are unresolved issues and problems, if there is anything that hinders overall progress and even accelerating work, whether additional support is needed from federal agencies and, finally, when the opening of these centres is planned. I am interested in the timeframes and deadlines.
I believe it is important, when creating cultural centres, to think outside the box. Uniformity certainly has a place, but there needs to be some golden mean without getting overly involved, because each region has its own needs in terms of the size and type of exhibition and theatre facilities, and its own demand for the development of art schools. It is absolutely necessary to take into account the opinion of the people living in each specific region.
All the details need to be taken into account at the design stage, prior to the start of construction, so that later on, you will not have to convert and rezone the finished facilities. Unfortunately, this happens, I have repeatedly encountered this, though not in the sphere of culture, although even here, this problem arose during the renovation of the Bolshoi Theatre, during the construction of its new stage. Therefore, we need to know now how each cultural centre will be used, and to think through their future maintenance, and sources of funding. I would like to hear specific proposals here today.
Staffing these facilities is, of course, of fundamental importance – I have already spoken about this, building strong teams to work at the new cultural centres. We will need whole teams of talented administrators, qualified specialists and, importantly, like-minded people. I am sure this is possible. I hear and know that there are various doubts on the matter. I heard similar doubts expressed when we decided to create a network of high-tech medical centres in the regions. They said the same thing to me: this will not work, there are no people, and no one will go there. But they did. From St Petersburg, from Moscow, from Novosibirsk, and some even returned from abroad.
When opportunities are created, I mean in terms of salaries, equipment, the right cohort, and support provided – everyone works and works very well. Moreover, healthcare immediately reaches a new level in the regions where the new centres open, because other medical institutions start pulling up to this level. This is extremely important. I am sure that we will succeed in this area as well. We just talked about what the Mariinsky Theatre does in Vladivostok. A wonderful production was put on by a young company, with Valery Gergiev’s help. This will happen everywhere, I do not doubt that for a second.
With that in mind, here is what I wanted to say about the regional cultural centres: this project should not come at the expense of financial or human resources of local cultural institutions. It is unacceptable to push them to the margins. The new cultural centres are designed to enrich and complement the cultural life of the regions, to work in close partnership with regional and local museums, theatres, and art schools. They have great potential, and they should have every opportunity to grow themselves.
Let us get to work.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: The questions that have been raised here are not idle. This applies to follow-up as well, because issuing money upon receiving a corresponding request is indeed part of the Finance Ministry’s job. The issue was about the fact that there was additional oversight of the spending of these funds in accordance with the estimates. This must be done by all means.
Even though the regions are ready to assume some of these responsibilities, it is important that the head institutions have timely access to additional funds for maintaining these branches in a timely manner. This is important.
Finally, it is critical for the head institutions to treat these branches as part of their own body, as it were, and take an active part in creating and accepting them. This needs to be taken seriously.
This is, in fact, a work-related meeting, but it is held during the holiday season which is still on in Russia. We are discussing ways to promote culture in the regions, and I think we are acting in line with the Christmas holiday spirit.
I want to thank you all for what you have already accomplished, and I want to note that the goal of our meeting today is to not only give additional impetus to this work, but to make it systematic and to monitor what is done. I hope this will be done on time and at the highest level of quality.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Sevastopol
Primorye Territory
Kaliningrad Region
Kemerovo Region – Kuzbass
Topics
Culture
Regions
Persons
Alikhanov Anton
Golodets Olga
Kozhemyako Oleg
Ovsyannikov Dmitry
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 8, 2019, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Launch of LNG regasification terminal
Vladimir Putin visited the Kaliningrad underground gas storage facility and took part in the launch of a gas-receiving terminal and a floating storage regasification platform via videoconference.
January 8, 2019
13:50
Romanovo, Kaliningrad Region
1 of 4
Launch of a gas-receiving terminal and floating storage regasification platform in Kaliningrad Region.
The terminal, built in the Baltic Sea, consists of a pier protected by a breakwater, where a floating storage regasification unit, the Marshal Vasilevsky tanker, is moored.
The vessel converts LNG delivered by sea back to natural gas, which is then distributed to consumers or pumped into the Kaliningrad underground gas storage facility, a sealed natural gas reservoir buried deep in rock salt sediment.
The first such project carried out by Gazprom in Russia, this alternative gas supply option for Kaliningrad Region is to increase the region’s energy security, given its unique location.
* * *
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
: Mr Putin,
We are in the control room of the Kaliningrad underground gas storage facility.
The floating storage regasification platform is currently moored at the receiving terminal; that platform will convert LNG into gas to pump into the underground facility and to supply to consumers in Kaliningrad Region.
We can now see representatives of the team that will continue to operate this facility, standing on the breakwater at the receiving terminal.
Mr Putin, we have completed the commissioning procedures. The terminal is ready to begin operations and distribute the first gas delivered to Kaliningrad Region by sea for local consumers and for pumping into the UGS facility.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, colleagues – both present here and those now at sea.
I would like to address everyone who worked on this project.
We have met here today, in Kaliningrad Region, for a very important event for Russia’s power industry and, of course, for the energy security of Kaliningrad Region, the entire region. This is the first such project in the Russian energy sector – an LNG regasification terminal.
We are all certainly well aware that delivering a primary energy resource such as natural gas over such a distance by pipeline makes better economic sense and is a cheaper option. But for us, for Kaliningrad Region, the project will most likely be a backup, and will substantially minimise, or more precisely, mitigate all transit risks.
In this regard, I would like to remind you that we agreed with the Government – and the Government has been so instructed – to prepare proposals (I know that they have been generally formulated and I am waiting for a report on this matter) on how to avoid a situation where the price difference between pipeline gas and liquefied gas supplied to Kaliningrad becomes an additional burden on the end users. I repeat, the proposals have been drafted, and I hope to hear a report on this matter shortly.
I would like to thank Gazprom staff – engineers, designers, workers, and builders – everyone who made this project possible. As a reminder, I issued corresponding instructions back in 2013, after which work began, and the project was completed in a relatively short time.
As I have already said, it is hard to overestimate the importance of this terminal for the region’s energy security and consolidation of the local energy base, given the geographical location of Kaliningrad Region first and foremost.
The terminal's capacity, 2.7 billion cubic metres of gas per year, almost fully covers the needs of the region, guarantees a reliable alternative for its gas supply, and reduces dependence on transit gas supplies. Not even reduces, eliminates. Moreover, as I have already said, the new terminal and its infrastructure can completely cover the region’s gas needs if necessary, without the use of gas pipelines running across neighbouring countries.
I will add that the new terminal was built using the most advanced technologies and complies with all environmental safety requirements.
Of particular note is the construction of the Kaliningrad underground gas storage facility. This unique UGS facility will ensure reliable and stable gas supply to local consumers, especially in autumn and winter.
By the way, in recent years, we have paid a lot of attention to the energy supply and energy security of this region, also in connection with EU plans to withdraw the Baltic states from the Russian energy ring. Strictly speaking, that is their business; additional taxpayer money will be invested in this.
But today, Kaliningrad Region is already completely autonomous and can resolve all its energy supply and consumption problems, not only of the primary resource, but also electricity. The system is ready, as its successful operation this autumn and winter made this very clear.
We have devoted considerable attention to the development of power grids; two power plants have already come online, the third one is ready to launch in the first quarter, and the fourth will be introduced in 2020. Overall, Kaliningrad will have 970 MW of additional capacity. This fully meets the region’s growing needs.
I would like once again to express my gratitude to all the energy workers, Gazprom employees in this case, and to wish all of us continued success. Thank you for your work.
Start when ready.
Alexei Miller: Mr President, we have the Director General and employees of Gazprom UGS standing by.
I ask them to report on the project’s main specifications. Proceed, please.
Director General of Gazprom UGS Igor Safonov: Mr President, this is Director General of Gazprom UGS Igor Safonov reporting.
Over 2,000 workers from Gazprom and contractor organisations were involved in the construction of the breakwater and the regasification terminal where we have gathered.
The breakwater and the terminal are located 5 kilometres from the shore, where the sea depth is 19 metres, so that the Floating Storage and Regasification Unit (FSRU) the Marshal Vasilevsky can anchor here. The breakwater is a unique structure designed to protect the FSRU from heavy storms, which happen here quite often. Then terminal has been built of high-strength concrete on 177 40-metre long piles and has the equipment for receiving gas from the FSRU.
You can see that two loading arms are connected to the Marshal Vasilevsky. From the terminal, gas is pumped through a 13-km pipeline to Kaliningrad Region’s gas transportation system and on to the end users and the underground gas storage facility.
Mr President, this concludes my report.
Alexei Miller: Mr President, we have captain of the Marshal Vasilevsky FSRU on the line. He will tell us about the main specifications of the unit.
Captain of the Marshal Vasilevsky FSRU Dmitry Yarymbash: Mr President, this is Captain of the Marshal Vasilevsky FSRU Dmitry Yarymbash reporting.
The Marshal Vasilevsky is Russia’s first floating storage and regasification unit (FSRU) that both transports liquefied natural gas and converts LNG back to natural gas right on board the vessel.
The vessel is 300 metres long and 46.5 metres wide. It can move at a speed of 19.5 knots. The temperature in its reservoirs, which can carry 174,000 cubic metres of LNG, is maintained at minus 163 Celsius.
The Marshal Vasilevsky FSRU is the first vessel of the Arc4 ice class. It has been registered with the Russian Maritime Register of Shipping and is flying the Russian flag.
The FSRU has anchored at the terminal in Kaliningrad and is ready to start regasifying the LNG and to supply the converted gas to the shore.
This concludes my report.
Alexei Miller: Mr President, the captain stands ready for your command to start supplying gas to the consumers and to the Kaliningrad storage facility.
Vladimir Putin: Commence.
Dmitry Yarymbash: Mr President, I am giving the order from the regasification and loading centre to start the delivery of gas to the terminal.
All systems are operating in normal mode. Gas is being delivered to the shore.
Alexei Miller: Mr President, the terminal has begun operating. We are pumping the first batch of LNG that has been delivered to Kaliningrad Region by sea to the region’s consumers and the Kaliningrad storage facility.
Mr President, you can see on the map that the Minsk-Vilnius-Kaunas-Kaliningrad trunk pipeline has been turned off and that gas is being delivered to Kaliningrad Region via the marine terminal. Its daily capacity is 13.2 million cubic metres, which means that its annual capacity is sufficient to fully meet the region’s current and future gas requirements.
Gazprom is implementing a comprehensive gas supply programme in Kaliningrad Region. We are expanding the Kaliningrad underground gas storage facility and building a gas liquefaction plant near the Portovaya compressor station in Leningrad Region, where the Nord Stream 1 pipeline begins, specifically for Kaliningrad Region.
Mr President, we have fulfilled the task you set us – to create a reliable sea-based gas supply system for Kaliningrad Region.
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
I would like to thank you once again for what you have achieved, for this excellent result, and to wish you every success in the future.
I with you a merry Christmas and a happy New Year.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Energy
Energy efficiency
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 8, 2019, 13:50
Text version