Events
Russian-Angolan talks
Vladimir Putin held talks at the Kremlin with President of Angola Joao Lourenco, who has come to Russia on an official visit.
April 4, 2019
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
Russian-Angolan talks.
The presidents discussed the strengthening of cooperation in trade, the economy and culture, as well as current international and regional matters.
Vladimir Putin and Joao Lourenco signed a joint communique after their international consultations. A number of bilateral documents were also signed during the official visit by the President of Angola to Russia. Specifically, intergovernmental agreements on the peaceful exploration and use of space and on fishery and aquaculture were signed, as well as documents on cooperation in diamond mining and processing.
In addition, Joao Lourenco presented Vladimir Putin with a high Angolan award – the Order of Agostinho Neto, the first President of Angola – as a sign of gratitude for the years of support for the Republic.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, It is a pleasure to see you and to welcome you to Moscow.
We met in Johannesburg last year, and I am happy to welcome you to Moscow in your capacity as the head of state.
With President of Angola Joao Lourenco.
You are well acquainted with our country, because you studied here, and I hope you will find it both interesting and pleasant to see how Moscow and Russia have changed.
Angola is a reliable and old partner. We need to consider what we need to do without delay to stimulate our trade and economic ties.
There are interesting fields of activity, such as the diamond industry, fisheries and space exploration. There are also cultural spheres, such as education and the training of personnel.
We are happy to see you. Welcome to Moscow.
President of Angola Joao Lourenco (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President.
Thank you for receiving me and the accompanying delegation in Moscow. As you have said correctly, it is true that I have noticed how much Russia has improved over these years, since 1982, when I completed my education in Moscow.
Moscow then and now are two different cities. My congratulations – you have ensured progress and development for Russia and the Russian people.
President of Angola Joao Lourenco.
We have come to Russia on an official visit to strengthen our ties and cooperation and, if possible, to promote interaction between our countries.
Russia is doing splendidly in the spheres of mineral resources, education, healthcare and defence. But we would like to know about Russia’s potential in other fields so we can promote cooperation in these areas of the Angolan economy.
This is why my speech at the opening of the Angola-Russia Forum in Moscow yesterday was designed to attract the interest of Russian business people to investing in the Angolan economy.
Many countries are doing this, and we are confident that Russia can help with economic diversification.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I think that this year we will have an opportunity to continue our dialogue aimed at finding ways to strengthen our economic ties. On October 24 of this year, a major Russia-Africa Forum will be held in Sochi. We hope to see you there.
Joao Lourenco: I will be happy to attend it.
<…>
Geography
Angola
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 4, 2019, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Opening of Memory Watch 2019 national event
Vladimir Putin took part in the opening ceremony of the Memory Watch 2019 national event at the Victory Museum on Moscow’s Poklonnaya Gora.
April 4, 2019
14:00
Moscow
Vladimir Putin spoke at the Memory Watch 2019 plenary meeting and learned about the Russian Search Movement’s projects, including the Frontline Portrait: A Soldier’s Destiny, which presents 27 portraits of Red Army soldiers that were painted at the frontline.
This nationwide event, due to last until April 6, will involve over 250 representatives of search associations from 82 Russian regions. They will discuss preparations for celebrating the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War, the implementation of the state patriotic education programme for young people and the organisation of search projects in 2019.
Memory Watch 2019 includes a number of events, such as search expeditions, caring for military burial sites, holding exhibitions and patriotic events linked with perpetuating the memory of the Motherland’s defenders who were killed in action.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, veterans,
I congratulate you all on the beginning of a new Memory Watch event. First of all, I would like to congratulate the veterans I can see here, who are the most distinguished and most important guests of all meetings of members of the Russian search movement.
Your heroic generation defended and rebuilt our country, liberated the entire world from Nazism, and your sacred devotion to the Motherland and your moral strength inspire participants in the search movement, as well as many others. This inspires all of us to staunchly defend the truth about the Great Patriotic War and the immortal feat of our people, and reminds us of the need to defend our national interests and those of the people of Russia.
In all, 250 members of the search movement from 80 Russian regions have gathered here. This impressive line-up is hardly surprising: this year your traditional assembly has coincided with the organisation’s fourth convention.
Its agenda aims to sum up the results of your work and to prepare for celebrations of the 75th anniversary of the Great Victory and, what is also very important, it includes a detailed discussion of a draft state patriotic education programme.
Memory Watch 2019 national event plenary meeting.
The current programme is to expire in 2020, and I am confident that the convention’s delegates will help chart priorities of the programme’s next edition.
The involvement of search movement members in drafting and implementing this document has great significance. It is you who discover previously unknown facts and events of our military history, reinstate the names of this country’s heroes and their destinies, as well as those great examples of genuine patriotism that should be used to raise and educate the new generations of Russian citizens.
I have repeatedly said, and I want to note this once again: history’s inseparable continuity is a foundation for our sustained movement. These values consolidate and unite our society.
We must do everything possible so that today’s children, teenagers, young people and all Russian citizens take pride in the fact that they are the heirs, the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of the victors, so that they know the heroes of their country and, what is most important, know the heroes of their own families, and everyone would realise that this is part of our life.
The memory of the difficult and heroic war years and everyone who brought closer the victorious hour in 1945 is absolutely sacred for our people. And your personal contribution to its preservation is very meaningful for Russia.
At this point, I would like to highlight the educational aspect of your work, your educational initiatives. Working on the sites of past battles, you are restoring sincere, truthful history.
It is this truth without any embellishments that always goes to your heart and soul and finds a response in the hearts of all generations, including young people, our youth. It is no accident that your projects are truly in demand.
At the plenary meeting of the Memory Watch 2019 national event.
Scouts are playing a great role in preserving the common historical memory of the peoples of the world. It is enough to mention your friendship and close cooperation with your foreign colleagues who know and honour the feat of the liberator soldiers.
And, of course, I would like to make special mention of the Great Victory Achieved by Unity project aimed at enhancing cooperation of search teams in the former Soviet republics.
The results of the search movement participants’ work and your very attitude to work certainly deserve all-round support. The movement will continue to enjoy organisational and grant support and necessary conditions will be created for your consistent and coordinated activities.
In the near future, experts will start elaborating a state programme on immortalising the memory of those who died defending our Motherland. Its goal is to regulate all legal aspects of the search movement, including assistance from government bodies of all levels.
I would like to emphasise that all issues related to befitting memorialisation of the Great Patriotic War heroes and Nazi victims should be resolved.
Friends,
I would like to congratulate you again on the beginning of Memory Watch. I wish you success and all the best. Thank you very much for your efforts and your attention.
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 4, 2019, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
Vladimir Putin met at the Kremlin with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu, who has come to Russia on a brief working visit.
April 4, 2019
12:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
Taking part in the meeting on the Russian side were Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Deputy Prime Minister Maxim Akimov, Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov
, Chief of the General Staff of Russia’s Armed Forces Valery Gerasimov
and Special Presidential Envoy for Syria Alexander Lavrentyev.
2 of 4
With Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
I am happy to welcome you to Moscow. We met only recently, but the scale of our relations is so enormous that we need to meet frequently.
I remember your invitation to visit Israel on the occasion of unveiling a monument to the defenders of Leningrad during the Great Patriotic War.
We highly appreciate your policy on commemorating the Red Army soldiers who fought against Nazism and who brought liberation to many people in Europe, including the Jewish people.
Incidentally, the so-called search groups of Russia will begin their work today. These people search for the remains of fallen Red Army soldiers who perished while fighting in Russia. These search groups consist of volunteers, those who do this difficult job because they care.
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
The search groups have been created in 82 Russian regions and comprise 42,000 members. They have found the remains of 120,000 Soviet soldiers and have traced the names of 6,000 fallen heroes who were considered missing.
I believe the same fate befell Israeli serviceman Zachary Baumel, who was killed in 1982 and was considered missing in action. As you may know, our military personnel and their Syrian partners helped find Zachary’s remains.
We are glad that he will receive proper military honours in his homeland. Another, purely humanitarian aspect of this case is that Zachary’s family will be able to bring flowers to his grave.
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu (retranslated): Mr President, I am always happy to meet with you.
However, today I feel even more deeply moved, because you have raised a vitally important subject – the reclamation of the remains of those who were considered missing. We share this value, Mr President, as you said two years ago, when we discussed your assistance in the search for the remains of our soldiers, including Sergeant Zachary Baumel.
Your personal response was very positive then, and you instructed the Russian army to help us in this noble undertaking. This evening, the burial ceremony for Sgt
Baumel will be held in Israel. His remains will be laid to rest in the presence of his family.
Prime Minister of the State of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
Mr President, we are wholeheartedly grateful to you for your personal friendship, for your position and for the position of Russia, which shares these values with Israel.
(Speaks in Russian) Spasibo.
Vladimir Putin: As far as I know, all the genetic tests have been made. We still have the remains, which later today we will send to Israel in your presence and in accordance with military tradition.
Benjamin Netanyahu: Yes, we know. It will be a very emotional ceremony. We would like to express our gratitude to the Russian Defence Ministry and the Russian army. We will never forget their contribution, which will go down in history.
Vladimir Putin: It should be mentioned that it was a difficult mission for the special operation forces group concerned. Please, convey my best regards to the sergeant’s family.
Benjamin Netanyahu: Thank you. Zachary’s family is deeply touched. This defies words. Regrettably, Zachary’s father has passed away, and his mother is nearly 100 years old. But Zachary has a sister.
We have told them about the selflessness of the Russian soldiers who risked their lives to retrieve Zachary’s remains. His family has asked us to convey their personal gratitude to you, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Telephone conversation with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
April 1, 2019
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
February 27, 2019
Geography
Israel
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Netanyahu Benjamin
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 4, 2019, 12:15
Text version