Events
Russian-Chinese talks
Beijing is hosting talks between Vladimir Putin and President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping.
April 26, 2019
09:30
Beijing
4 of 10
Russian-Chinese talks. Photo: TASS
The President of Russia noted, in particular, that bilateral trade and economic relations were developing more successfully than planned, with 2018 trade reaching $108 billion.
After the consultations, Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping exchanged gifts.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: My dear friend, President Xi Jinping,
Thank you very much for the invitation to take part in the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. I must say right at the start that your initiative is making progress. It was timed to perfection and very successful. It is assuming a global nature and beginning to dictate the principles of building international relations and the norms of economic relations that are highly relevant in the world today.
This is an extremely important initiative, which is why it enjoys so much support around the world. The large number of participants who came to Beijing to take part in the discussion is direct evidence of this.
Russian-Chinese comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation are growing on all tracks. Our cooperation has reached an unprecedented high level, serving as an example of how inter-state relations should be built in the modern world.
In 2018, mutual trade increased by 24.5 percent to a record $108 billion. Last year, we set a target of $100 billion, that is, the development pace is very high.
You have already said that this year marks the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. Mr President, we are looking forward to your state visit to Russia, which will become a key political event of the year in bilateral relations.
I am very pleased to have this opportunity today to meet with you, with our Chinese colleagues and friends and discuss bilateral matters and aspects of international relations that are of mutual interest to us.
Russia is determined, as it always has been over the past decades, to expand the strategic partnership with China in all areas.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2019, 09:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Myanmar’s State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi
Vladimir Putin met with State Counsellor of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Aung San Suu Kyi on the sidelines of the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation.
April 26, 2019
14:40
Beijing
1 of 4
With Myanmar’s State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi. Photo: RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madam State Counsellor, colleagues. I am very pleased to see you, and I am happy to have this opportunity to discuss things at the Beijing summit.
Myanmar is Russia’s long-time and reliable partner in Southeast Asia. Last year, we marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. We are committed to the further development of political dialogue and the continuation of inter-parliamentary exchanges. Our ministries of foreign affairs also have well-established contacts.
Although quite modest in absolute terms, our mutual trade is growing rapidly, having gained more than 50 percent last year.
There are regional issues, of course, which need to be focused on.
I am glad to have the opportunity to meet with you and talk about all these issues.
State Counsellor of Myanmar Aung San Suu Kyi: We are also very glad to have this opportunity to meet. We tried to meet with you in Singapore, but it was not possible before. Of course, we have been friends with Russia for a long time, and we value this friendship and we also appreciate the support that you have given us on the international arena. Your ambassador has done very much to promote friendship between our two countries, I think primarily because of his fluent Myanmar language, which has impressed our people a lot and made him very popular. And we look forward to expanding our relations with Russia.
See also
Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation
April 26, 2019
Geography
Myanmar
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2019, 14:40
Text version