Events
Meeting with Head of British Petroleum Robert Dudley
February 7, 2019
18:55
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin received the Chief Executive Officer of the oil and gas transnational British Petroleum Company, Robert Dudley, at the Kremlin. They discussed the prospects for BP’s continuing operations in the Russian market.
Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov
and Rosneft Chief Igor Sechin
attended the meeting.
* * *
Russian President Vladimir Putin: Mr Dudley,
I am delighted to see you; we have met on many occasions. ВР is a major investor in the Russian economy: over 17 billion dollars. You own over 19 percent of our largest oil and gas company Rosneft.
We regard you as a reliable strategic partner; we have always assisted you in doing business in Russia, and we will do so in the future.
I would like to discuss with you the possibilities and prospects for further cooperation, both in your joint projects with Rosneft and separately in the projects that you think are interesting, important and promising.
Head of British Petroleum Robert Dudley.
BP CEO Robert Dudley: Thank you very much Mr President.
It is good to see you again. And as you know we have been working and competing in the Russian market for more than 30 years. And we have had a strategic partnership with Rosneft now for more than five years and it has worked extremely well.
We have tremendous respect for the company and the results that it is providing not only to the country but to BP as a shareholder. I am sure, Mr President, you are aware of it from a perspective as a shareholder.
I have to say there have been remarkable results in 2018 in the efficiency of Rosneft, record production – 286 million tonnes, more than four times the cash flow from the years before, the technology that has been put in Rosneft has resulted in its largest profit ever. So, in addition to the other projects, we observe Rosneft's great success last year, and I also note that it is now one of top ten largest oil and gas companies in the world.
I would like to thank you for your support of the company and BP’s business over the years. It is very important for me to thank you from the perspective of BP.
Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 7, 2019, 18:55
Text versionEvents
Presentation of 2018 Presidential Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists
Vladimir Putin presented Presidential prizes in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists in the Kremlin. The ceremony was traditionally timed to Russian Science Day marked on February 8.
February 7, 2019
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Established in 2008, this year the annual prize is awarded to young scientists and professionals for contribution to advancing Russian science, for creating new equipment and technology that can boost the innovative development of the economy and social sphere, as well as for strengthening national defence.
* * *
See also
Laureates of 2018 Presidential Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists
February 5, 2019
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues, friends.
We are meeting on the eve of Russian Science Day, so I would like to wish you and all scientists of Russia the very best on the occasion of this upcoming event.
The role of national science, its traditions, schools, and achievements have been important for our country and its development at all times. Today, when we are faced with a goal of a large-scale technological breakthrough, its value has increased many times over.
It is very important that young scientists are actively involved in this work, that they contribute to the creation of advanced technologies in medicine, ecology, energy, agriculture, construction and other fields, that they participate in space exploration and the study of world oceans, as well as in projects that strengthen national security.
Presenting the 2018 Presidential Prizes in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists.
I would like to stress once again that all our national projects require a strong scientific foundation, including the tasks of Russia’s spatial development, building new mechanisms of economic, scientific, technological growth across its vast territory.
This is why very shortly we are launching the development of world-class science and education centres and research facilities. They will first be built in the regions where science and its achievements are particularly important for the socioeconomic development, including Siberia and the Far East.
These new points of growth are particularly important for young people. Sirius has already become a point of attraction for children who are passionate about science and invention. I am certain that the opening of genetic and mathematical advanced research centres will significantly expand the opportunities for their professional careers in science.
Friends, it is well known that the success of science is determined by talented, passionate people, including young scientists, who think in modern terms, who have new and advanced knowledge, who are devoted to their work and strive to fulfill their most advanced ideas.
To support their ambitions, to strengthen their motivation, we launched a line of grants, scholarships and awards that expand their opportunities for professional growth, for achievements in science, innovation and technology.
We are launching the development of world-class science and education centres and research facilities. They will first be built in the regions where science and its achievements are particularly important for the socioeconomic development
Thus, the Russian Science Foundation started a special programme in 2017 to support young scientists from the moment they defend a dissertation until they create their own scientific groups.
Over the past two years, more than 1,500 young researchers received the grants; more than 500 started research teams and organised work in such promising fields as digital production technology, personalised healthcare and resource-saving energy.
One of this project’s advantages is reduced bureaucratic formalities. This has always been appreciated by the scientific community. I expect that the same approach will be fully applied to the Science national project.
In recent years, we have significantly increased the number of researchers who are under the age of 39. Strong, talented young people join scientific research teams. This trend is also manifest in the growing number of nominees for this award each year.
Presenting the 2018 Presidential Prizes in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists. With laureate Vyacheslav Dyachuk.
You know that its format is limited to four categories, but there are many more worthy projects competing for the prize this year, which made it even more difficult to make the choice.
We will certainly continue attracting young and promising personnel to science, as well as building a unified system of schools for gifted children, leading universities, graduate students working in various laboratories and world-class research centres.
This way we will be able to saturate our development programmes with research staff, open up opportunities for free cooperation between scientists from different teams, including foreign ones, to address relevant interdisciplinary problems.
Friends, I am pleased to present the prize winners to you. All of them have proposed bold scientific solutions and achieved high results.
A study by Yekaterina Grizanova determined the minute mechanisms of insect pests becoming resistant to biological plant protection products, making it possible to create effective and, most importantly, environmentally friendly products that help protect crops and forests.
Presenting the 2018 Presidential Prizes in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists. With laureate Yekaterina Grizanova.
The work by biologist Vyacheslav Dyachuk significantly contributes to understanding the fundamentals of nerve cell development, and consequently, advancing the treatment of various pathologies, including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. This is highly important for increasing the duration of a healthy and active life.
Ivan Oseledets proposed breakthrough solutions in computational technology. They focus on efficient processing of large arrays of mathematical data on the object of study. The software developed on this basis is extensively used by research groups around the world for solving complex applied tasks. The approach proposed by this laureate is already included in matrix analysis textbooks.
Tomsk physicists Yevgeny Orlov and Viktor Zharkov developed a new method to discover ultra-low concentrations of explosive substances. The method allows to expose sources of danger in an intense passenger flow at a distance and basically can replace service dogs. Experts estimate that these solutions are substantially more advanced than similar foreign developments.
Friends, congratulations on your great professional success. Congratulations on your promising work that sets a high bar for all Russian research.
This is a huge achievement of your mentors, leaders in the scientific fields that you chose for your career. I expect that in the future you will do all you can to strengthen the succession of the Russian research schools.
Presenting the 2018 Presidential Prizes in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists. With laureate Ivan Oseledets.
Do not ever stop, overcome all difficulties and move on confidently towards new scientific horizons.
Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Once again, congratulations to our laureates, and to all mentors who helped these young researchers to achieve these results.
We are speaking of the protection of people, protection of plants, as well as development in general. Overall, we are speaking of the development of our country and global research as well.
I am pleased to see that these results were achieved by young researchers. It means that we have a bright future, a powerful foundation, interesting, prospective and reliable reserves.
I would like to once again congratulate you on your achievements. I really hope that they will not be your last and it is only the beginning of your creative journey.
My very best wishes to everybody on the occasion of Science Day.
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 7, 2019, 14:00
Text version