Events
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko held talks before the plenary session of the 6th Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions.
July 18, 2019
14:15
St Petersburg
5 of 6
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
Yesterday, the presidents of Russia and Belarus visited monasteries on Valaam and Konevets islands on Lake Ladoga.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
Today we can and should resume the discussions which we began with the President of Belarus during our informal meeting yesterday. On the regional track, we will hold talks with our colleagues who are responsible for interregional cooperation. All this is very important and interesting, as well as promising and useful.
We have a government commission, which will, hopefully, report today on their achievements in the further development of the Union State. This year we will mark an important anniversary in December, which is why Mr Lukashenko and I have decided to review everything that has been done within the framework of the Union State, as well as things that have not been done and the reasons behind that, and to map out acceptable ways for promoting our integration.
In this context, I would like to note again that Belarus is certainly our closest strategic partner and ally. We are working together in all spheres, including security, military development and defence, plus the economy. Our mutual trade is growing, which is good news. Russia is the largest investor in the Belarusian economy. Our total direct investment in Belarus is approaching $4 billion.
However, questions invariably pop up in the course of such challenging joint work. I hope that we will use our meeting today to move forward.
Thank you.
President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Thank you, Mr President.
I noticed that your thoughts that you shared – and we did not coordinate our actions here – are absolutely consistent with mine: here are my notes, I wrote them this morning, and they show that we think alike.
The only thing that I can add to the analysis of the situation is that we sometimes drag on making decisions on some issues for either objective or subjective reasons. We have come to a moment when it is necessary to not just talk, but make decisions. This is what journalists, experts and average people expect from us, it is true. Therefore the moment calls for making decisions.
As for Mr President and me, we, the presidents, have walked our path, and you note this yourselves within the joint group. We have repeatedly met in Sochi, in Moscow and in other places, and have even been criticised for talking and not acting. We have decided on everything we were planning to decide on. We outlined the directions of our activities as well as concrete steps, and as Mr President said, we created an intergovernmental group. The governments are working now. It does not matter that Mr Krutoi or Mr Oreshkin [economy ministers of Belarus and Russia] head these groups – the governments are working and this means that the presidents have fulfilled their mission, played their role and made the necessary decisions that you, the experts, asked for.
What do we have now? As Mr President said, we have a programme, which is a strategic document, more or less, and today, we have a whole range of issues to deal with. The group and the governments know these issues and they have developed a programme, which is 80–90 percent agreed upon, according to them. I believe that Mr President was also told about this.
I do not want to go into more detail, as I have told Mr President. I would like to make a suggestion. I believe Mr President will support it. In December [2019] we will mark 20 years of the Union Treaty. Clearly, we should sort out all of our problems before that date. What will we talk about on the occasion? There will be nothing to say unless we settle all the outstanding problems and sign a document setting out the strategy of our future actions.
In other words, Mr President, I propose resolving everything by that date and approving our decisions within the framework of the Union State Supreme State Council, or in any other way we agree upon, including the programme on the strategy of our future actions and solutions to outstanding problems.
I would not like journalists or other professionals to criticise Belarusians or, more precisely, Lukashenko for insisting that problems be settled. These are concrete problems that are plain to see. Unless we settle them and remove them from our agenda, it would be ridiculous to discuss any strategy.
So, I suggest that we support our governments’ proposal on resolving all our problems before the 20th anniversary of our Union Treaty. It will be December 8, I believe. So, we must do it by December 8. There is plenty of time. Moreover, our governments have missed the deadlines for certain issues, which Mr President and I set for them two years ago in St Petersburg, I believe. Well, we will talk about this. Today is the right time to do so.
I am grateful to Mr President for yesterday’s tour. It was not a mere familiarisation tour. We went to the place where our roots are, the roots of our faith and the roots of all the real people. I do not think the President of Russia ever led anyone on a tour of these places, which he knows inside out. I am deeply grateful to you for taking me over these mountains, rivers, lakes and holy places, and for showing all of them to me so openheartedly.
Today we are thinking about what we can do in Belarus to continue along this path in Valaam and other monasteries, especially since we met very many Belarusians there yesterday.
<…>
See also
Visit to Valaam
July 17, 2019
Visiting Konevets Island
July 17, 2019
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2019, 14:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben van Beurden
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben van Beurden.
July 18, 2019
18:00
St Petersburg
1 of 2
With Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben van Beurden.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr van Beurden, friends, I am very happy to see you, this time in St Petersburg. Shell has been working in Russia for a long time, since the end of the 19th century, I believe, and today the company is active in many projects and is a big investor in the Russian economy, with over 15 billion in direct investment. This is why I am very glad to see you and discuss cooperation prospects with our colleagues.
Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben van Beurden: Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for the opportunity to meet with you again.
You are right that we have been in the country for a long time, 127 years now. And we value that long-term partnership, but I equally value the opportunity to periodically catch up with you, Mr President, and talk about the future.
So, since the last time we met, there have been quite a few developments that I would like to share with you. First of all, two months ago we celebrated 25 years of Sakhalin Energy. And that, of course, has been a tremendously successful project with more than a hundred million tonnes of energy delivered to customers in the Far East. But also $25 billion of revenues directly from the project to the Russian Federation. More than $25 billion of contracts being awarded to Russian contractors and partners in the supply chain. And of course, it has been the foundation of the birth of the energy industry in your country, Mr President.
But very important also, last month, at the St Petersburg Economic Forum we made a major step forward with our long-term partner Gazprom Neft. Because we agreed formally to extend our collaboration in West Siberia, developing new resources next to our existing collaboration. And that will be the single biggest investment in the conventional oil and gas sector in the last five years.
But, of course, next to that we also have a good downstream business, our retail business is important to us, and we have focused Russia as one of the key five growth countries in the world. So, over the next five years, we will be adding at least one retail station a week in order to extend our network to the country.
And also, our lubricants business is doing very well, Mr President. We are clearly the number one international player and we source almost all of our lubricants that we sell here in Russia from our Russian operations.
And then a small thing, but one that I am still very proud of, is that a few days ago we also entered as a partner in the cultural ties between the Netherlands and Russia, where we support the Year of Rembrandt here in St Petersburg at the Hermitage and I am very proud of that, as well. But at the same time, we have many ambitions in your country for the future, and I hope we will have the opportunity to compare how our ambitions line up with your desires and how we can be an even stronger partner for the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: I would also like to thank you for your participation in cultural and educational initiatives in Russia. What you have said about the Hermitage is not the only area you are involved in. There is also the Bolshoi Theatre and some other initiatives.
Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2019, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Viktor Medvedchuk
Vladimir Putin met with leader of the Ukrainian Choice – People’s Right party Viktor Medvedchuk.
July 18, 2019
16:30
St Petersburg
3 of 3
With leader of the Ukrainian Choice – People’s Right party Viktor Medvedchuk.
Viktor Medvedchuk: Mr President, I would like to share my impressions from yesterday’s visit to the European Parliament in continuing our conversation today. In particular, the peace plan I presented on the orders of our political authority, issues pertaining to peace settlement and cessation of hostilities, which is fully based on the Minsk agreements and repeats the Minsk agreements approved by the UN Security Council resolution.
This meeting was very interesting and I will talk about it later, but it is very important to note that it was attended by several representatives: the newly elected European deputies from Great Britain, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Belgium, Bulgaria and Slovakia. At that meeting, where many questions were asked, I presented the approaches that can improve the situation today and finally implement the Minsk agreements in full.
I talked about our goal to return the people first, not the territories: through the language and their wish to return. We call it to return Donbass to Ukraine and return Ukraine to Donbass.
There were a lot of questions, questions related to the relations between Russia and Ukraine as regards peaceful settlement, but all this was accompanied by these people’s desire to help bring peace to Ukraine and a ceasefire to southeastern Ukraine. And let me say that this interest was not superficial. It was a sincere and productive discussion. It is also important – and the deputies noted this – that it was time that the monopoly of the “war party” that was in power, Mr Poroshenko’s party, on providing information on developments in Ukraine was over. This monopoly is over, because yesterday the European Parliament deputies heard a point of view from a different part of Ukraine, the “peace party’s” point of view on what needs to be done in order to really achieve peace.
I will expand on these issues later. But I must say that the reaction even inspired me because so many people in the European Parliament, in the newly elected European Parliament, are not just interested, are not just familiar with the situation and even the history of Ukraine, which really surprised me because when introducing me and the subject, I was going to talk about, they mentioned historical facts that are probably not familiar to most Ukrainians. But they built it on parallels – the representative of France and the representative of Great Britain. This is a very important point. I believe that this is a big and serious step along the path to peace in Ukraine.
Moreover, I want to say that, you know, our political coalition is establishing a dialogue, and one of the programme targets that our party faces today is the restoration of economic relations with the Russian Federation. You know that we met with the leadership of the Russian Government, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. There have already been two meetings with him – as the Prime Minister and the leader of the United Russia party. We met with leaders in the State Duma; we met with the directors of Gazprom where an agreement was reached and the Russian side proposed reducing prices by 25 percent for direct gas supplies. We supported this in public, that such an agreement exists. This is an approach that will improve the situation in the country today, the one that exists in terms of housing and utility rates for our citizens.
And we are move on despite the fact that, unfortunately, I think you have heard, I have repeatedly told you about it, criminal cases are being initiated both by the old government and the new one. Strong actions are being taken by radical forces of national radicals, national democrats who object to this. But our political party continues this work. We will restore this dialogue in order to restore economic ties and, in our opinion, this is very important.
Mr President, another thing that I would like to draw your attention to is what happened a few days ago. I think this is a very positive step: your telephone conversation, which took place at the initiative of President of Ukraine Vladimir Zelensky. It inspired and gave hope, I emphasise, gave hope to many people in Ukraine. And why? Because, according to opinion surveys, 70 percent of Ukrainian citizens believe that for peace, for the liberation of Ukrainian citizens in Russia, and, naturally, for the mutual liberation of Russian citizens who are in Ukraine, we need a direct dialogue, we need direct talks. Seventy percent want to see Mr Zelensky enter into talks with you, and 55 percent want Mr Zelensky to enter into talks with representatives from Donetsk and Lugansk. This is also an important attitude, because the general attitude today in the country is that about 80 percent of people want peace, they want the hostilities to stop.
This is the main thing I wanted to say and what I will talk to you about in detail later, including with regard to the European Parliament.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: First of all, thank you for finding it possible to come and talk about the outcome of your meetings in Strasbourg. I think that the involvement of European partners – and they have been involved in one way or another from the start, unfortunately even from the beginning of the conflict, which eventually became what we see now in Donbass – the involvement of European partners is a very positive thing. And we welcome it in every way.
And we also welcome the fact that your proposal is based on the Minsk agreements, and there is no doubt that we will support any political forces moving in that direction.
Comprehensive restoration of Russian-Ukrainian relations is extremely important for us too, and we will cooperate with any political force, including yours, to restore full-fledged relations between Russia and Ukraine. This also concerns resolving problems in Donbass and our bilateral relations in the economy.
Naturally, the Government reports to me about your meetings and topics that you discuss. I think that everything that you talked about with the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation and representatives of the economic and energy blocks can be implemented. You and I also talked about it on many occasions. So, we will work on it.
Viktor Medvedchuk: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: The only thing that I wanted to point out is what you just said, in particular, that a comprehensive settlement in the south-east, in Donbass, is only possible through direct contact between the authorities in Kiev and representatives of those republics, and that not a single conflict in the world in recent history has been resolved …
Viktor Medvedchuk: Without sitting down at the negotiating table.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, without direct talks between the conflicting parties.
We will also do our utmost so that the process moves along smoothly at the right pace.
I want to also thank you for your efforts over the recent years, the efforts regarding the release of persons detained on both sides. I think that such humanitarian work will always be welcomed by everybody because this activity brings about favourable outcomes in peoples’ lives. There is nothing more important in terms of any political force’s work then when its activity produces favourable results in the lives of particular people and families. I think that people will always sincerely thank you for this.
Viktor Medvedchuk: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 18, 2019, 16:30
Text version