Events
Meeting with athletes of 2019 Winter Universiade
Vladimir Putin visited the Universiade village and met with members of the Russian national team.
March 3, 2019
09:00
Krasnoyarsk
9 of 9
With members of the Russian national team at the 2019 Winter Universiade.
During the discussion, the President highlighted the unprecedented massive scale of the 2019 Winter Universiade that kicked off in Krasnoyarsk and the importance of the development of sport in the regions.
Before the meeting with athletes the President visited the Universiade’s operational centre located in Siberian Federal University.
Images from the Universiade village and competition venues are displayed on the screens in the centre. Representatives of different agencies can monitor the incoming information in real time.
Russia is hosting the Winter Universiade for the first time. A total of 76 sets of medals in 11 sports will be awarded. The XXIX Games kicked off on March 2 and will end on March 12.
* * *
Meeting with members of the Russian national team at the 2019 Winter Universiade
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I congratulate all of you on the start of the Universiade! I hope it will be successful for you.
Well, actually things are off to a good start: I believe we have already won a gold medal. I will watch our guys compete [The President will attend men’s skiing competitions].
I hope you like it here. We tried to create good conditions so that you could rest and train and, of course, attain maximum results.
I would really want sport to develop in the regions as well. You are from different regions. You, where are you from?
Remark: From Yaroslavl.
Vladimir Putin: And you?
Remark: St Petersburg.
Vladimir Putin: A good programme has been launched on Match TV channel [new specialized channel – Match! Strana]. Information from different regions will be aired about what is being done for the development of sport at the regional level.
The Universiade will definitely break the record in terms of massive participation. We spoke with Minister of Sport Pavel Kolobkov
: it is on par with the number of participants of the Winter Olympic Games – three thousand participants.
It is an entire army; 58 countries – a very big delegation, that is why the winning at this Universiade will be very prestigious.
And I am counting on this being the beginning of your competitive career, and that you will further attain impressive results and victories that you and all of us will be proud of.
Good luck to you!
See also
Winter Universiade Opening Ceremony
March 2, 2019
Additional
Trip to Krasnoyarsk
March 2 − 3, 2019
Geography
Krasnoyarsk Territory
Topics
Regions
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 3, 2019, 09:00
Text version