Events
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials and defence industry executives
The President held a meeting on the implementation of the state defence order for the Navy. 
December 3, 2019
16:10
Sochi
6 of 6
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials and defence industry executives on the implementation of the state defence order for the Navy.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
We are continuing our series of meetings here in Sochi and today we will discuss issues of the implementation of the state defence order for the Navy.
But before we get down to work, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the NATO summit is being held in London on November 3–4. It is devoted to NATO’s 70th anniversary. Let me recall that it was established on April 4, 1949 as a major component of the unfolding Cold War and in opposition to the Soviet Union.
The Soviet Union does not exist any longer and there is no Warsaw Pact, either. The military pact was set up in response to the creation of NATO but today NATO not only exists but is continually being developed. It was created with 12 states and now includes 29 countries. The aggregate military expenses of its members exceed 70 percent of the world’s total military spending.
Needless to say, the bloc mentality stereotypes of the past cannot be a good instrument for searching for and adopting effective decisions in the rapidly changing conditions of the modern world.
At the same time, as you know, we have repeatedly expressed our willingness to cooperate with NATO for jointly countering real threats, such as international terrorism, local armed conflicts, and WMD proliferation. We have repeatedly taken steps to meet the alliance halfway and offered it a positive agenda. We held a number of joint events but after 2008 cooperation was actually curtailed because the alliance’s actions towards Russia were inappropriate, if not blatant, and didn’t take into account Russia’s interests. Nevertheless, I hope that the interests of common security, as well as the stable and peaceful future of the planet will still prevail.
Right now we have to proceed from the fact that NATO’s expansion, the development of its military infrastructure near the Russian border, pose a potential threat to our national security. Therefore, coming back to this meeting’s agenda, I would like to note that the technical overhaul of the Russian Armed Forces has been and will remain the focus of our closest attention.
Under the state defence procurement order, this year the Navy will receive over 480 major models of arms and equipment. They include two submarines, 23 surface ships and logistics vessels, three aircraft, four coastal missile systems and more than 400 units of various missile and torpedo weaponry.
The strategic naval nuclear forces are being re-equipped with state-of-the-art nuclear powered Borei class submarines with Bulava ballistic missiles. The Borei-A flagship submarine, Knyaz Vladimir, is in the final stage of its state trials. Four more submarines under this project are in development.
As concerns the Russian Navy’s strategic non-nuclear forces, the core fleet consists of ships carrying the Kalibr high-precision long-range missiles. As you know, these missiles can hit targets as far as 1,500 km away. Fulfilling the State Armament Programme will allow us to double the number of these missiles by 2023.
The Navy is increasingly being expanded with open ocean vessels. Nine surface ships of this type are currently under construction. Overall, modern weapons account for about 68 percent of total Russian Navy armaments.
Once again, we will continue to develop and upgrade the Navy, making it highly efficient and suitable for open-sea operations. I would like to ask the senior officials of the Defence Ministry, the Ministry of Industry and Trade as well as senior executives in the defence industry to report on the priorities of this work.
Let’s begin.
<…>
See also
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials and defence industry top executives
December 2, 2019
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2019, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Ceremony to mark the 10th anniversary of the Russian International Olympic University
Vladimir Putin spoke at the ceremony to mark the 10th anniversary of the Russian International Olympic University.
December 3, 2019
15:40
Sochi
1 of 3
Ceremonial meeting marking the 10th anniversary of the Russian International Olympic University.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Today is a good day and a nice occasion: we are celebrating the 10th anniversary of a remarkable university, the Russian International Olympic University. It is an important and significant event, at least for Russia, and a noble mission aimed at uniting athletes, academicians, officials, civil society figures and businesspeople, representing not just Russia but other countries as well. I congratulate you with all my heart: all the staff, students and alumni, on the university’s first milestone anniversary. The university has become a good, large international platform as well as an advanced education and research centre that has gained respect in the Olympic family. Today it is the only university in the world that has the Olympic rings on its diploma.
See also
Visiting the Russian International Olympic University
December 3, 2019
Conversation with Paralympic athletes
December 3, 2019
Today we had a tour here and saw how it works – buildings, lecture halls and equipment – everything meets the highest modern standards. Most important is that the curriculum has cutting-edge content. Over 100 Olympic, world and European champions representing almost all the Russian regions have already graduated from this university. The rector has just said that only one region is missing: Chukotka. But we will get it, too. Representatives of 63 countries work and study here, and that is quite a large number.
Much has been done to make Russian education more competitive. For example, our university – your university – has come second in the European and tenth in the global international rankings of postgraduate sport management programmes for the past three years, as the rector has also told me.
It is important that, together with the Russian Olympians Foundation, you focus on outstanding Russian athletes and literally help them build their future and find a new path in life so that after their sporting careers are over they can feel confident, move forward and be victorious.
Friends,
In order to achieve our national goals, increase the life expectancy and improve the quality of our people’s life, we must do more to develop mass sports. Moreover, interest in fitness and sports is constantly growing in Russia. I have just had a meeting with Paralympians, and I had to tell them, just as I have to tell you, that it is true that the situation around fitness and sports has changed significantly in Russia. But we still have room to grow, because some neighbouring countries have more athletes per 1,000 people than we do. This means that we have done a lot, but we must go further.
We need educated managers who can work to develop mass sports in big cities, towns and villages. They must always have ways to advance, to upgrade their knowledge and skills and acquire new, up-to-date skills. This is why your further training programme for sport managers must satisfy today’s needs and integrate scientific and technological achievements as well as the experience of the leading managers and coaches, including our foreign colleagues.
Such programmes should be constantly expanding, especially since effective professionals are needed at government agencies of all levels as well as businesses.
It has already become beneficial for the state and private businesses to put their efforts into both professional and recreational sports. The public-private partnership works well in this sphere. Your university is the best example. Mr Potanin, thank you very much for supporting this idea and this excellent institution.
I would like to repeat that I regard training managers as one of the most important tasks for promoting mass sports, and I am sure that you will do this brilliantly.
Once again, congratulations to the staff on your anniversary and best regards to all of you. Thank you very much.
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Sport
Universities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 3, 2019, 15:40
Text version