Events
Talks with President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov
Talks between Vladimir Putin and President of the Republic of South Ossetia
Anatoly Bibilov took place in the Kremlin. Anatoly Bibilov is in Russia on a working visit.
March 6, 2019
18:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With President of the Republic of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov.
The leaders discussed the current state of bilateral cooperation and prospects for its development, primarily in the socioeconomic sphere.
* * *
President Vladimir Putin: Mr Bibilov, I believe there is no need to speak about the special character of relations between Russia and South Ossetia.
We are strategic partners in the full sense of the word. We do everything we can to support the socioeconomic development and security of South Ossetia. There is no doubt that we will continue this work in the same spirit.
I know that you will have a parliamentary election in June, and I am sure that you will do everything you can to make sure the election is held in accordance with the law and on a democratic basis. We, on our part, will send observers to the parliamentary election in South Ossetia, as we have agreed.
It is gratifying to note that Russia remains your leading trade and economic partner. We have an investment programme and a number of other programmes aimed at supporting South Ossetia.
I am glad to have the opportunity to discuss all this with you today.
President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov
: Thank you very much, Mr President.
First of all, I would certainly like to thank you for the opportunity to visit Moscow and meet with you.
It is very important for South Ossetia that our leaders meet at the highest level, which is traditional already. This gives us confidence that the development of South Ossetia and the strategic partnership between South Ossetia and Russia remain at a high level.
As for the general state of things, I can note with satisfaction that the agreement, which we signed in 2015, and additional agreements to that major one are being carried out very effectively.
There is the programme that you have just mentioned. Undoubtedly, it has a significant impact on the development of South Ossetia’s economy and infrastructure, and it has major social significance. We offer our sincere gratitude for all this to you and to our colleagues from the Russian Federation who are directly in charge of this.
Once again, I would like to take the opportunity to express gratitude on behalf of the people of South Ossetia and myself.
<…>
Geography
South Ossetia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Bibilov Anatoly
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2019, 18:20
Text versionEvents
Federal Security Service Board meeting
The President took part in the annual expanded Board meeting of the Federal Security Service (FSB).
March 6, 2019
14:10
Moscow
At a meeting of the Federal Security Service Board.
The meeting was held to discuss the Service’s performance in 2018 and priorities for 2019.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, comrades.
We have met today for the annual expanded meeting of the FSB Board to discuss the Service’s performance last year and outline its priorities for the immediate future and the medium term.
First of all, I would like to say that FSB personnel fulfilled its tasks effectively last year. For example, much has been done in the field of counterterrorism, including efforts to ensure safety at major public events. Of course, we are grateful to you for ensuring safety at the FIFA World Cup. I know that the FSB actually supervised the event’s headquarters, so that it operated at the top level; this work has brought good results. The Service also supervised elections at different levels, which was hard work as well.
I understand very well that your daily activities imply serious efforts. Your work is very demanding, given the nature of external and domestic challenges and security threats to Russia.
For example, tensions persist in the Middle East and several other parts of the world. Why am I saying this now? Because all this has its impact on us. The existing pockets of violence and instability provide conditions for terrorist activities, including in Russia, I regret to say.
I would also like to say that NATO continues to expand its infrastructure in close proximity to Russian borders, and the US decision to withdraw from the INF Treaty is a direct step towards eroding the system of international security agreements. This is certainly changing the operational situation, and regrettably, not for the better.
Therefore, I expect the staff of the central office, territorial divisions and special units of the FSB to act professionally and in a concerted manner to attain their goals promptly and efficiently. First of all, they must continue their consistent and uncompromising fight against terrorism.
At a meeting of the Federal Security Service Board.
I must note that the number of crimes related to terrorism has been decreasing in recent years; the Director will certainly mention this in his remarks. In general, over ten years, this figure has declined dramatically, from 997 to 9 last year. At the same time, please note that the number of prevented terrorist attacks remains high – about 20 a year. This level has been maintained for the last three years. We all know how sensitive and important this is; each strike that has not been averted costs lives.
So what does this reduction in the scope of the terrorist threat mean? First of all, it shows the results of our preventive operations, of our actions to disrupt the plans of terrorist networks and groups. Yet, at the same time, these figures suggest that terrorists still have the potential to prepare attacks. Moreover, as the situation shows, both in our country and elsewhere, both organised groups and single brainwashed fanatics may be behind these crimes.
It is necessary to use new forms and methods of countering such threats, step up preventive work to identify the recruiters and accomplices of terrorists, block the supply of weapons and money, and curb extremist propaganda online. The leadership of the National Anti-Terrorism Committee should keep these issues under constant review.
And of course, it is necessary to develop cooperation and coordinate efforts with our foreign colleagues, mainly in the CSTO and SCO, and with our colleagues in other countries. In this regard, I would like to stress once again, no matter how our current relations with certain countries evolve, Russia will always be open to the closest and most trust-based work in the fight against international terrorism, this common challenge for all of humanity.
Furthermore, our counterintelligence agencies operated efficiently and aggressively last year. They conducted successful special operations to cut short the activities of 129 career officers and 465 agents of foreign intelligence services. We see that foreign special services have been trying to increase their Russia operations, doing their utmost to gain access to political, economic, scientific and technological information. This means that you must work even better to counter these activities. We see that, just like in the past, comparable or even stronger efforts are being taken to influence developments in Russia. Therefore, our countermeasures must be effective, daily and based on modern solutions.
This especially concerns the protection of information on the design, testing and manufacturing of advanced Russian weapons systems, as well as advanced military and dual-use technology. Control in this sphere must be very strict and thorough. However, I would to draw your attention, colleagues, to the other side of this matter: this control must also be sensible, or smart, so to speak.
No artificial obstacles and barriers must be created to the use of the powerful potential created in the defence sector for civilian purposes and for development. We must not repeat past mistakes when a great many advanced designs gathered dust for years because of the formally understood security procedures. Overall, we must be flexible and look closely at realities, not formal procedures.
Colleagues, one of your key priorities is to ensure our economic security and to combat corruption. The security services have initiated criminal proceedings in 405 corruption cases, and other law enforcement agencies have initiated some 7,000 corruption cases based on the material provided by the FSB. We must work actively to expose criminal schemes damaging the state and business, and cut short any abuses on the financial markets that are damaging the national economy.
At the same time, we must promptly react to infringements on the rights of entrepreneurs by some members of law enforcement, regulatory and supervision agencies. As you know, I spoke in detail about this in my Address to the Federal Assembly and at a recent Interior Ministry Board meeting. I hope that you will use the opportunities available to you to contribute to the achievement of a vital goal – the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of entrepreneurs, as well as all citizens of Russia.
Director of the Federal Security Service (FSB) Alexander Bortnikov at a meeting of the FSB Board.
I would expect you to take more proactive measures against corruption. The huge resources that the country is allotting for its development and the state defence order must be protected. I ask you to coordinate this work with specialists of the Civic Chamber, the Federal Financial Monitoring Service and other agencies.
Furthermore, it is important to enhance the security of national information resources, primarily, by promptly countering cyberattacks against government bodies, state corporations, communications providers and large companies, and to ensure the failsafe operation of confidential communications systems.
I would like to note that in the past three years coordinated cyberattacks, that is, attacks consisting of several linked actions, have become more frequent. Thus, while in 2014–2015 a little more than 1,500 cyberattacks were recorded a year, which is also quite a lot, but in 2016 their number reached 12,000, about 12,500 in 2017 and as many as 17,000 last year. In effect, these are well-planned large-scale operations that can deal a heavy blow at our national interests.
We must be ready for the continuation of this cyber offensive against Russia and the growth of related threats. In this context, it is important to take prompt additional measures to protect critical information infrastructure and to develop a state system of detecting, warning, and eliminating the effects of computer attacks.
The FSB Border Service is facing serious tasks. Under the State Border programme (which is valid until 2021), 14 new border complexes were put into operation in the past few years. They include 80 engineering structures, checkpoints and coastal guard facilities. It is necessary to continue upgrading the infrastructure of border sections and speed up their re-equipment with modern technology.
Colleagues, I am confident that FSB employees will continue solving their tasks professionally, reliably guarding Russia’s national interests and supporting our citizens in ensuring their security and lawful rights and freedoms.
I would like to thank you for your work last year once again and wish you success. Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2019, 14:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay
Vladimir Putin received UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay in the Kremlin to discuss prospects for cooperation between Russia and UNESCO.
March 6, 2019
16:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 5
UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madam Director-General, colleagues, it is my great pleasure to welcome you to Moscow.
This year marks the 65th anniversary of Russia's UNESCO membership. I am aware that a number of events have been planned in this regard. This is your second visit to Russia as the Director-General of UNESCO, but this time it will last three days, and tomorrow you are going to Tatarstan, one of Russia’s regions.
I am pleased to note that relations between Russia and UNESCO are steadily developing. We believe that UNESCO has always been a key international intergovernmental organisation working in the sphere of cultural relations.
With UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay.
For our part, we have always been supportive of the organisation, and we plan to remain so in the future. We are always at your disposal. At the same time, we are counting on your help and support, including methodological support, as we strive to implement our national plans and plans for Russia-UNESCO cooperation.
It is a great pleasure to have you here. Welcome.
UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay: (in Russian) Thank you for the reception in Russia. I am very happy to see you.
Meeting with UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay.
(Retranslated) I am very happy to be in Russia once again. I am glad that this visit is taking place at what is a critical time for UNESCO in my opinion.
First of all, allow me to express gratitude to you for the key role that Russia has been playing in UNESCO’s activities for 65 years now. It continues to play a meaningful role today as well.
I would also like to say that, at a time when international relations are occasionally tense, UNESCO offers an extremely constructive and useful platform for the cooperation of states that are capable of engaging in open dialogue with a view to reaching our goals in education, science, communication and culture. All this is being done to achieve peace and harmony between countries.
Meeting with UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay.
Since I assumed office a little more than a year ago, we have been trying to focus UNESCO’s activities on these three areas – education, science and culture – in order to reduce the political tensions that sometimes mar UNESCO’s efforts and image. I hope to be able to move in this direction, modernising our organisation, launching new initiatives and organising our activities in accordance with our mandate with the support of UNESCO member-countries, including Russia.
<…>
Topics
Culture
Foreign policy
Professional training
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 6, 2019, 16:15
Text version