During his state visit to Saudi Arabia, Vladimir Putin and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud attended the first meeting of the Russian-Saudi Economic Council.Events
Russian-Saudi talks
October 14, 2019
17:00
Riyadh
5 of 8
During Russian-Saudi talks. With Sergei Lavrov, Foreign Minister of Russia (left) and Yury Ushakov, Aide to the President.
Vladimir Putin met with Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud
 in his palace complex. They discussed, in part, bilateral cooperation in the world energy market.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, I am very happy to see you again, this time in Saudi Arabia.
As you have seen, we have already started a detailed discussion of the entire range of issues pertaining to our relations. The Saudi King and I reviewed this in detail during the talks and reception.
Your Highness, we appreciate your personal efforts to strengthen the entire range of Russian-Saudi cooperation, including the trade, economic and investment areas.
As I have already said, our trade is growing. With your support, the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia (PIF) has allocated $10 billion for joint projects with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF). The mechanism of automatic co-investment is also functioning well. We have reached agreements on new initiatives involving Saudi investment.
Our countries work together to resolve major international and regional problems. We cooperate in the United Nations and the G20, where Saudi Arabia will assume the presidency next year, and through strategic dialogue between Russia and the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf.
We both support efforts to counter the terrorist threat and achieve long-term political and diplomatic settlement of crises in the Middle East and North Africa.
We attach much importance to Russian-Saudi coordination in the world energy market. Owing to the active participation of our countries, we managed to extend agreements in the OPEC+ format on reducing oil production.
Your Highness, all our cooperation is aimed at promoting peace and security in the region and stabilising the world energy industry. All this is producing good, positive results.
I would like to thank you once again for your efforts to carry out these joint plans.
<…>
See also
State visit to Saudi Arabia
October 14, 2019
Additional
Details on visit to Saudi Arabia
October 14 − 15, 2019
Geography
Saudi Arabia
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Al Saud Mohammed bin Salman
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2019, 17:00
Text versionEvents
State visit to Saudi Arabia
October 14, 2019
16:30
Riyadh
3 of 29
The ceremony for the official meeting of the President of Russia and King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia.
Riyadh has hosted talks between the President of Russia and King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud
of Saudi Arabia. The talks focused, among other things, on coordinating measures to stabilise oil prices, as well as the situation in Syria and the Persian Gulf region, and the Palestinian-Israeli settlement.
In addition, the leaders discussed building up their multi-dimensional cooperation in various areas, such as energy, agriculture, industry and military-technical cooperation, as well as cultural and humanitarian exchanges.
The parties had a detailed exchange of views on current international issues, with an emphasis on the developments in the Middle East and North Africa.
Following the visit, a package of bilateral documents was signed, including both interagency and commercial agreements. The sides signed the Charter of Cooperation of Oil Producing Countries and the programme for high level Russian-Saudi strategic cooperation of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation. Other documents concern cooperation in manned cosmonautics and the GLONASS global navigation satellite system, energy, culture, healthcare, mass communications, tourism, mutual visa facilitation agreements, encouragement and protection of capital investment and mutual expansion of agricultural and food exports. A number of documents regulate specific issues of joint investment and joint projects.
Later, Vladimir Putin held talks with Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud
of Saudi Arabia.
The sides also exchanged gifts.
* * *
Beginning of talks with King of Saudi Arabia Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud
<…>
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty, I am pleased to be in the hospitable nation of Saudi Arabia again. I remember my visit to your country in 2007. Back then, I had the pleasure of seeing you and talking with you. You spent much time with our delegation, and we talked a lot.
Russia attaches particular importance to expanding friendly and mutually beneficial ties with Saudi Arabia. Bilateral relations were established over 90 years ago in 1926, the dawn of the state of Saudi Arabia. The Soviet Union was the first foreign country to recognise the young Kingdom of Hejaz and Nejd led by your father.
Your Majesty, we appreciate your personal contribution to promoting multifaceted Russia-Saudi Arabia cooperation. Your first ever visit to Russia in October 2017 was quite effective. The agreements reached back then are being successfully implemented.
Trade and economic cooperation is getting stronger. Last year, trade grew by 15 percent to over $1 billion, adding another 38 percent in January-July. The intergovernmental commission is working effectively, and its most recent meeting was held in Moscow in June.
Your Majesty, the Russian-Saudi Economic Council, which you just mentioned, has been effectively created and its members include representatives of major businesses of our respective countries. Today, we plan to take part in the council’s first meeting.
During the talks, we will review the key aspects of our cooperation, outline plans for the future and, of course, exchange opinions on international matters.
Saudi Arabia will chair the G20 next year and will play an important role in addressing key issues on the global economic agenda.
I had a very productive discussion with Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman at a summit in Osaka, Japan, in June. We agreed, in particular, to extend the OPEC+ agreements in order to stabilise the global oil market.
We see Russian-Saudi coordination as an indispensable element for ensuring security in the Middle East and North Africa.
I am convinced that without your country, it is hardly possible to achieve a just and long-term settlement of any problem in this region.
I hope that this visit will give an additional boost to our cooperation across all areas. We have drafted an extensive package of joint documents to be signed during this visit and acted upon later.
Thank you.
See also
Details on visit to Saudi Arabia
October 14 − 15, 2019
Geography
Saudi Arabia
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2019, 16:30
Text version