Events
Closing ceremony for the Cross Years of Russia and Japan
June 29, 2019
12:40
Osaka
3 of 6
Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe attended the closing ceremony for the Cross Years of Russia and Japan.
Vladimir Putin attended the closing ceremony for the Cross Years of Russia and Japan.
Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
also attended the event.
* * *
Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe (retranslated): Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
In May of last year, together with President Putin we held a ceremony in the Bolshoi Theatre to launch the Cross-Year of Russia and Japan.
A year has passed, filled with diverse events held in both countries to help our peoples learn about the beauty of each other.
Over 600 events held in Russia were attended by over 1.5 million people. They include a guest tour by the Kabuki theatre, demonstration horseback archery performances and martial art exchanges. All these events demonstrated very well the appeal of Japan.
People in Japan could get an insight into the essence of Russian culture, which is the pride of the world, such as an exhibition of paintings from the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts and performances by the Mariinsky ballet.
Over this year, the people of Japan and Russia demonstrated a growing interest and affinity for each other.
Today we have invited here those who worked selflessly to promote ties with Russia. I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who helped us during the cross-year and my joy over the successful completion of the Cross-Year of Russia and Japan.
The cross-year ends today, but we decided together with President Putin to hold the first ever Japanese-Russian year of interregional exchange to take bilateral contacts to the outmost regions of our countries. Every region in our two countries has its inimitable traditions and distinctive features.
In conclusion, I would like to express hope in the continued development of ties between our countries.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,
Today’s ceremony is the final event of the Year of Russia in Japan and the Year of Japan in Russia and a chance to review the huge job we did together to promote humanitarian cooperation aimed at bringing our peoples closer together.
The programme of the cross-year was truly attractive, grand and filled with interesting events. It covered nearly all spheres of our bilateral relations, including culture, the arts, education and tourism.
Russia and Japan have successfully held over 700 different events, including exhibitions of works of art from Russian and Japanese museums, film and theatre festivals, musical tours, while sailing ships have also called at both countries’ ports.
Joint projects in the field of healthcare, cutting-edge technology and municipal administrations have been implemented.
Russia has successfully hosted performances given by Japan’s Nippon Budokan Martial Arts House.
In April, Japanese tourists conducted a fact-finding tour of the Trans-Siberian Railway along the Following the Sun route and travelled across all of Russia, from Vladivostok to Moscow.
Last week, St Petersburg was the venue of a workshop on restoring Japanese swords from Russian museums’ collections. This is the first such unique event to have taken place in our country.
The Ambassador of Japan to Russia has just pointed out that a Japanese pianist has come second at the International Tchaikovsky Competition. But this is not linked with events of our cross-years. I sincerely congratulate this Japanese musician on his landmark victory from the bottom of my heart, and I wish him every success. This was entirely his own doing.
The Japanese audience was really interested in the Russian figure skating team’s public training sessions. The Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet organised a number of performances in Tokyo and some other Japanese cities, including Osaka. These events highlighted the rich traditions of Russian choreography.
I would like to note that many of these performances involved outstanding cultural workers and artists of our countries, prominent specialists in the field of education, science and sports, members of parliament and creative young individuals.
Today, we are witnessing performances given by very young talented people. Young soloists from the Moscow Chamber Choir and the Japanese Children’s Choir will perform both countries’ folk songs, and they will also display their professionalism while performing classical music.
It goes without saying that the cross-years have provided a serious impulse to expanding the entire range of bilateral relations, have helped establish direct contacts between people and have, in general, facilitated stronger neighbourly ties between our countries.
I would like to thank all the participants in these numerous events from the bottom of my heart. And, as Shinzo [Abe] has just said, we have agreed to launch a new project called the Year of Russian-Japanese Inter-Regional and Twin City Exchanges.
I am particularly happy to say this here in Osaka, the twin city of St Petersburg, my home city. This important initiative is called on to impart a new quality to diverse mutually beneficial ties between Russian and Japanese regions.
Most importantly, work will continue to form an atmosphere of friendship and cooperation between our countries and peoples.
Thank you. Arigato.
Geography
Japan
Topics
Culture
Foreign policy
Persons
Abe Shinzo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 29, 2019, 12:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
June 29, 2019
05:20
Osaka
3 of 5
With President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
on the sidelines of the G20 summit.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
I am very glad to have another chance to meet with you and discuss our current issues.
I would like to stress from the onset the 16 percent trade growth in 2018. We both know that either side has a significant investment volume of $10 billion each.
Currently we are resolving the issue – and I believe it should be sped up – of establishing a €900 million investment platform.
Implementation of our large projects is underway, I will not speak about it now, as we are well aware of these matters.
Turkey’s upcoming participation as a partner country in the 10th INNOPROM International Industrial Trade Fair in Yekaterinburg in July will be an important event.
In addition, the tourist exchange is growing: last year six million Russian tourists visited Turkey, which is a record number.
They are no cheapskates, they know how to enjoy their holidays, so the revenues of the Turkish partners reached $5 billion.
I think the ambitious programme of the current Cross Year of Culture and Tourism in Russia and Turkey will lead to new achievements in the area.
We have many other items on our bilateral and international agendas, so I would like to stress again that I am very glad to see you.
President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): Mr President, my dear friend,
I would like to especially focus on the new impetus we have given to our relations recently.
The S-400 delivery – we continue watching over this process in accordance with our agreement reached in Dushanbe.
I would like to note that joint missile production as well as technology transfer has a priority for our cooperation. As far as I know, there has been no delay with this delivery.
Also, the next meeting of our joint economic commission will be held in Turkey.
As you said about tourism, Russia’s and Russian citizens’ love for our country is growing daily. It means a lot for our people and for tourism, for the tourism sector, and is another major force.
Another crucial part is the Akkuyu nuclear power plant. Launching the first generating unit in 2023 is of major significance for implementing this task.
On the other hand, we attach great importance to the non-nuclear equipment being provided by the Turkish market.
<…>
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 29, 2019, 05:20
Text versionPresident of the Arab Republic of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi Your Excellency President Putin, allow me to thank you and to greet you.Events
Meeting with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
June 29, 2019
13:00
Osaka
2 of 2
With Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe.
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
.
The President of Russia congratulated the Japanese Prime Minister on successfully hosting the G20 Summit.
Following the meeting, a number of documents were signed in the presence of Vladimir Putin and Shinzo Abe. Among them were memorandums of understanding on holding the Year of Russian-Japanese interregional and twin-city exchanges and on the issues of climate change and increasing energy efficiency. Also, interdepartmental documents were signed involving, in particular, cooperation in the digital economy, joint efforts in tourism, projects of a methanol-producing plant in Volgograd and development of the Volgograd chemical cluster, organisation of medical equipment manufacturing locally on the territory of the Russian Federation, as well as Japanese companies’ participation in the Arctic LNG 2 project.
The two leaders also made statements for the press.
* * *
Beginning of meeting with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe (retranslated): Mr President, welcome to Japan! I am glad that after our last encounter in Moscow we are meeting here in Osaka.
We are witnessing a positive dynamic in all areas of Russian-Japanese relations. We have just attended the closing ceremony for the first-ever Cross Years of Russia and Japan, and we have successfully deepened, expanded and stepped up exchanges between our nations.
I would also like to note that for the first time in the past nine years the Japanese-Russian council of governors brought together an unprecedented number of governors.
Now, in order to increase the flow of people between the two countries to at least 400,000 by 2023, we are trying to expand the grounds for exchanges, including the World Rugby Cup, the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic games, and other events.
Today I hope to have a discussion with you on signing a peace treaty with consideration of the results of the meetings between our foreign ministers and our negotiators. I also hope for an exchange of opinions on bilateral cooperation issues in various areas and in international issues.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister,
First of all, I would like to congratulate you and your colleagues on the successful hosting and completion of the G20 summit. It was a big job, and it is largely you who deserves the credit for such good results.
It was not always easy to bring together positions that were often at the opposite ends of the spectrum on key issues of global development and the development of the world economy.
I hope the spirit of Osaka that we have felt here and the results of our work will stay with us for the rest of the year and maybe even for a few more years.
We have completed the wonderful cross-years, and have just marked it in a wonderful concert hall in Osaka.
I agree with you: we have made considerable advances in many areas in developing our relations.
I would like to thank you for inviting my colleagues and me on a specially organised visit to Japan, despite such a great amount of work due to the G20 summit.
I am glad to have an opportunity to discuss the range of issues in our relations including, the peace treaty.
<…>
Additional
Press statements following talks with Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe
June 29, 2019
See also
G20 final meeting
June 29, 2019
Geography
Japan
Topics
Foreign policy
G20
Persons
Abe Shinzo
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 29, 2019, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Crown Prince and Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud
June 29, 2019
10:10
Osaka
1 of 5
With Crown Prince and Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud.
Vladimir Putin met with Crown Prince and Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud. The meeting was held on the sidelines of the G20 Summit.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, we started discussing some issues of mutual interest yesterday.
I am glad to have this opportunity to speak in a regular working mode about our bilateral issues, matters of mutual interest in the region and in international affairs.
First of all, I would like to say that Saudi Arabia assuming the G20 presidency at the end of the year is certain to contribute to solving priority issues of international relations that the G20 deals with.
On our part we will do everything we can to support your presidency.
I would like to ask you to pass on my gratitude to his Majesty the King for his invitation to visit Saudi Arabia. I hope this visit will take place this autumn, as agreed.
I am also glad to have a chance to share my considerations with you on how we are going to build up our work in the global energy markets. This work has been developing and yielding positive results largely thanks to you persistent efforts.
I am glad to have this meeting and a chance to speak with you on all the issues and on all the problems.
Crown Prince and Defence Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammad bin Salman Al Saud (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President.
I would like to relate a greeting from the Custodian of the Two Holy MosquesKing Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. We would like to say that we always welcome your visit.
In recent years we have seen dynamic development in our bilateral relations in the political area and also in the economy, defence, culture and security.
I think the more often we meet, the more opportunities we will find for further progress.
Praise be to Allah, we have mutual trust. We will continue working for the benefit of our bilateral relations.
<…>
Geography
Saudi Arabia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Al Saud Mohammed bin Salman
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 29, 2019, 10:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting on floods in the Irkutsk Region
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on floods that have affected a number of districts in Irkutsk Region.
June 29, 2019
23:30
Bratsk
4 of 4
Meeting on floods in the Irkutsk Region.
The meeting was attended by Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev
, Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Siberian Federal District Sergei Menyailo
, Irkutsk Region Governor Sergei Levchenko
, First Deputy Prime Minister – Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
, as well as heads of relevant ministries, agencies and municipal entities.
Heavy rainfall has caused flash floods in Irkutsk Region. An emergency situation has been declared in the region.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Over the past few days, as you are all well aware, Irkutsk Region experienced large-scale floods. Nizhneudinsky, Taishetsky, Tulunsky and Chunsky districts have suffered the greatest damage.
Unfortunately, there have been victims as well. Dozens of villages were flooded, homes destroyed, transportation, social and communal infrastructure disrupted. Today we will assess the situation here and look into what we can do and what we must do first of all.
We need to get down immediately to the following tasks. First, we must inform people about what is going on, where temporary accommodation can be found, and where they can get medical aid, potable water, food, medicine and essential items.
Let me stress that special attention must be paid to providing an uninterrupted supply of as much drinking water as needed. I am asking regional and local authorities as well as the federal agencies’ local bodies to stay in touch with the people and respond swiftly to their complaints and requests; among other things, we must help them find their families and create lists of those who have been evacuated so that their families and officials, of course, know who is where at this very moment.
Unfortunately, the floods continue, so we must establish additional temporary accommodation with all the necessary equipment in advance.
Secondly, we must immediately, practically today, begin paying the victims compensation. The government has already made its decision and the treasury and the Central Bank are down to work. However, let me stress that it is necessary that the money does not just get as far as the region itself– according to the Finance Minister’s report, it is already here in the region – that money must be given out to the people, to every person and to every family. I would like to instruct the governor to control this as strictly as possible.
Let me repeat this: we must start paying compensation right now, without waiting for the full and checked lists of the victims, although, of course, this must also be done immediately.
Third. Please keep the epidemiologic situation under control, primarily in the disaster-hit areas. This is a job primarily for Rospotrebnadzor [Federal Service for Supervision of Consumer Rights Protection and Human Well-Being] and the Health Ministry.
In fourth place come the children affected in the areas where there is flooding. They should be sent to summer camps, including those in other regions. Younger children must be accommodated together with their parents. The presidential envoy has already reported that these issues are being coordinated with the leadership of the adjacent regions but I would like to ask my colleagues from federal departments to see to it that children are sent not only to places nearby, but also to places around the country: there are plenty of summer camps for children.
Fifth. Prices of essential items must be strictly controlled and profiteers and unfair vendors should not be given the opportunity to make money on people’s misfortune. The Federal Antimonopoly Service and, if necessary, the Ministry of the Interior should step in when it comes to this.
Sixth. Please work out at once an action plan for housing restoration in order to complete this job as soon as possible. We understand only too well what the situation in the Siberian regions is like – summer is very short here and winter comes quickly, but the water levels are still high. When shall we build then?
There is very little time. Everything must be done so that people will not have to live in tents when the cold comes. And in general, all possible scenarios must be provided for.
We also need to promptly evaluate all the damage and to commence to restore the infrastructure, meaning the electricity, communications, transport, health care and educational facilities: schools, kindergartens and hospitals. Children should resume studying on time, in September.
I am instructing the Emergencies Ministry, the Irkutsk regional authorities and the relevant federal ministries to start at once to calculate the scope of the restoration work and to determine what kind of additional materials are required and how much funding will be needed, what building resources and materials, including from the neighboring regions, and if necessary from remote regions too.
Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoys in the Siberian and Far Eastern Federal Districts should assume control and coordinate the entire job.
I would like to once again repeat: all the tasks that I have mentioned have to be performed seamlessly, through interaction between all the levels of authority. It is extremely important in such situations.
I expect to hear your detailed reports on the situation and immediate plans. I would like to stress once again: plans for the short and middle term, considering the need to restore everything I have already mentioned: infrastructure, living quarters and social facilities.
Let us get down to work.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Following our meeting today, draft instructions have been drawn up and I am now going to sign them. However, there is another thing we have all noticed: the scale is huge, in fact, the disaster is not over yet, the floods continue. It is not clear when the water levels will go down, we can only make estimations. And we are running out of time when it comes to restoring things. This is why I believe it is necessary to establish a governmental commission considering the scale of this natural disaster in Irkutsk Region, in order to coordinate the activities of the local, regional and federal authorities to timely restore the transport, energy and social facilities as well as living quarters, including houses. The commission will be headed by Vitaly Mutko. I will inform him in just a moment.
I believe that all the representatives of both regional and federal agencies as well as my municipal colleagues must coordinate their work as carefully as possible. The result will largely depend on this.
I am asking you not to regard your tasks as just a formality but to work properly. There are many victims and we have a lot to get done. The final result will depend on the coordination of this work.
It is impossible to deliver anything if there is no transport and the transport infrastructure is not put back in order. It is impossible to work if there is no electricity. Of course, if no seeds arrive in time, it will be impossible to restore anything related to cattle breeding and so on; the task would not be solved in general. I am not even mentioning healthcare. We understand how important it is.
This is why I am once again calling on you all to work together, actively and effectively. I will gather everyone I need in Moscow on July 3 to look into the developments and how the work is being organised. We will discuss this once again in Moscow.
I would like to wish you every success in your joint work.
Geography
Irkutsk Region
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 29, 2019, 23:30
Text version