Events
Meeting with Russian journalists
Following the II Global Manufacturing and Industrialisation Summit, Vladimir Putin met with Russian journalists and answered their questions.
July 9, 2019
16:30
Yekaterinburg
At the meeting with Russian journalists.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Question: First question is about Georgia. May I?
Vladimir Putin: We are at such a good international event on technology. Does it [Georgia] demonstrate any achievements in terms of applying the latest technology?
Remark: Unfortunately no.
Question: The words said about you were really unprecedented…
Vladimir Putin: You must be kidding.
Question: And State Duma parties have united in voting for an embargo. On food products and money transfers, of course. When will you decide on this?
Vladimir Putin: You know, it would take a lot of time to give a complete answer. But I will tell you my thoughts in short. In order to understand what I am guided by in this, we should take a look at our past, at history.
Look, Ossetia joined the Russian Empire, if I remember correctly, in 1774. Both northern and southern Ossetia came together, as an independent state. Abkhazia did the same in 1810, also as an independent country, a principality.
Meeting with Russian journalists.
Later some events took place within that single state. South Ossetia became part of the Tiflis Governorate. There was no Georgia at the time, but the Tiflis Governorate.
Abkhazia developed in the following way. When the Russian Empire fell after World War I, Georgia made attempts to absorb Abkhazia; an independent country of Georgia was established, and, with help from German troops, it occupied Abkhazia in 1918.
The occupiers were very cruel, and Georgian troops in Ossetia in 1919 and 1920 even more so. This was essentially what is called genocide today.
The Georgian authorities would do well to remember this. It must not be forgotten, if Georgia’s current government wants to mend relations with the people of Abkhazia or South Ossetia.
By the way, during the Soviet era, it was decided to establish the Soviet Socialist Republic of Abkhazia, which included today’s Georgia. It wasn’t even Georgia.
The Soviet Socialist Republic of Georgia was established during Stalin’s time, and Abkhazia was included. By the way, human rights activists never note this, which is strange.
However, on Stalin’s orders, the NKVD, headed by Beria, took very harsh measures on Abkhazians – I don’t even want to say what – in order for Georgia to absorb this territory and the Abkhazians.
This is a grim legacy that one of the first Georgian presidents simply ignored when he took Adjara and Abkhazia’s autonomy. All of this resulted in an explosive and fratricidal war.
At the meeting with Russian journalists.
At the time, I tried to convince Mr Saakashvili. I said, “Mr Saakashvili, do not take any military actions against Abkhazia or South Ossetia.” I said the same to the Americans: “No, under no circumstances.”
And what happened? They started a war. The result? It is well-known today. Russia had to acknowledge the independence of these republics and protect the Abkhazians and the South Ossetians.
Why am I going over all this? Because all these anti-Russia sentiments in Georgia are inflated by those who don’t know anything, or know but prefer to ignore it, thus damaging Georgia and Georgians.
The rest is secondary. Curses and swearing are not so important, so they should not be taken seriously. No need to respond to what some bad guy says.
Regarding the various sanctions against Georgia, I would not do this because I respect the Georgians, because one person that nobody knows came out and said something stupid, and now everyone is talking about it. He has achieved what he wanted. He was suspended for two months and went on holiday. He will continue his work when he returns.
But there are people who protest this in Georgia. I would not take any measures that will make our relations more complicated for these people, in order to restore relations between Russia and Georgia.
Question: The State Duma and other politicians suggested opening a criminal case against the Georgian journalist on grounds of insulting the authorities.
Vladimir Putin: He doesn’t deserve that honour. Let him go on talking.
All the best.
See also
The Global Manufacturing and Industrialisation Summit 2019
July 9, 2019
Visiting Sverdlovsk Region
July 9, 2019
Geography
Sverdlovsk Region
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 9, 2019, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Visiting Ural Federal University
At Yeltsin Ural Federal University, Vladimir Putin met with undergraduate and graduate students. The President also toured an exhibition of the university’s innovative developments.
July 9, 2019
17:50
Yekaterinburg
4 of 10
At a meeting with undergraduate and graduate students of Ural Federal University.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon. I am happy to see you.
I would like to begin our meeting with what we have just discussed with the Rector and the Governor. I want to congratulate you on Yekaterinburg winning the bid to host the 2023 Summer Universiade.
It is a significant and positive event for the city, the region and the whole country. It is also a very beneficial event for the university because some of the buildings and facilities will later be given to the university, allowing the teaching sites that are currently spread all over the city to be moved here and turned into large research and education clusters.
I am confident that this will be beneficial, and I have no doubt that the country will rejoice at the achievements of our student athletes, just as we rejoice at the achievements of our young athletes at the current competitions.
We have started talking about the university. Your university is a respected, large and serious research and educational facility and has been precisely that since its establishment through the merger of several higher educational establishments in 2010. It has produced a synergetic effect, which we can see very well.
In addition, the university received the right to create small innovative companies using a simplified procedure, which has produced a very good effect. Likewise, some of our projects, such as mega-science ones, found fertile soil for their implementation here.
I know that two such projects are being carried out here, with the involvement of French researchers of global renown. I believe one of them specialises in archaeology and the other, in a STEM field.
Overall, this, together with development based on the university’s own resources, is producing a positive effect. I hope you can see this, while we will try to keep up the momentum you have gained over the past years. I am confident that this wonderful university has a bright future.
I would like to end my short address now. If you have any questions, ideas or proposals concerning what we should do to boost the development of your university and our education system as a whole, or the innovative sectors that are connected with science and education, let us discuss them.
<…>
See also
Visiting Sverdlovsk Region
July 9, 2019
Geography
Sverdlovsk Region
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 9, 2019, 17:50
Text version