Events
Meeting on economic matters
August 26, 2019
13:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
Meeting on economic matters.
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on economic matters to discuss the main factors of economic growth and developments in the real economy sector.
The meeting was attended by Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Presidential Aide Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Oreshkin
and Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
As per tradition, we have gathered in this format to discuss the key factors that influence our economic progress and developments in the real economy sector.
I would like to remind you that Russia’s GDP increased by 0.7 percent in the first six months and that industrial growth was 2.6 percent in the period of seven months, including 2 percent in manufacturing.
These are certainly positive results, yet we are not satisfied with this trend. We must make economic growth more sustainable and more dynamic. Today we will discuss the additional decisions we need to take to achieve this.
A positive factor I would like to mention is the inflation rate. Annual inflation is gradually moving down to the target figure and is currently around 4.5 percent.
However, people’s actual income is growing very slowly even despite these developments and despite wage increases. This can only cause concern.
I would like you to speak about the practical steps we should take to increase people’s incomes and, overall, to ensure a more sustainable growth of our economy.
Let us begin.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 26, 2019, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Acting Head of Republic of Bashkortostan Radiy Khabirov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Acting Head of the Republic of Bashkortostan Radiy Khabirov to discuss the socioeconomic situation in the region.
August 26, 2019
14:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
At a working meeting with Acting Head of the Republic of Bashkortostan Radiy Khabirov.
Radiy Khabirov
was appointed Acting Head of the republic last October. According to him, the industrial production index in Bashkiria is 104.5, and 109 percent in construction. The wages are growing. Agricultural results have been improving after the droughts of previous years.
The volume of investment in the industrial and agricultural sector is also increasing: it has reached 113.6 percent of investment in fixed capital. The gross regional product accounts for 1.5 trillion rubles. Another three priority social and economic development areas have been added to the existing two.
The officials also discussed issues related to demographics, healthcare, employment and a new project, the construction by the French company Savencia of a factory to produce soft cheese.
In addition to this, Mr Khabirov said that the International Federation had decided to hold the 2021 World Wrestling Championships in Bashkiria.
Geography
Republic of Bashkortostan
Topics
Agriculture
Economy and finance
Industry
Regions
2 more
Persons
Khabirov Radiy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 26, 2019, 14:35
Text version