Events
Meeting with Volgograd Region Governor Andrei Bocharov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Volgograd Region Governor Andrei Bocharov to discuss the socioeconomic situation and the development of a modern healthcare system in the region.
March 15, 2019
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 5
With Volgograd Region Governor Andrei Bocharov.
Andrei Bocharov
updated the President on the stable socioeconomic situation in the region and development trends. The gross regional product has grown from 607 billion rubles to 860 billion rubles over the past five years and is expected to reach 1 trillion rubles in 2021.
The governor said that the region is working to fully achieve the social and other goals set forth in the May 2012 Presidential Executive Order and that the local authorities are closely monitoring the process. He said they had started implementing the tasks formulated in the May 2018 Presidential Executive Order and in the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly.
Andrei Bocharov noted that demography is their main concern and that it includes preserving the people and enhancing the quality of their lives. One of the key priorities is to create a cutting-edge healthcare system in the region, primarily a modern oncology care system comprising a top-notch oncological centre and 14 outpatient oncological clinics. The government said they have launched the training of specialists who will constitute the core of the regional oncological system in 2021.
The next stage of modernising outpatient clinics and the launch of a large-scale project to establish healthcare districts in the region will begin in 2022. Apart from that, the regional authorities have decided to purchase mobile medical complexes intended for small towns and villages.
The governor added that more attention should be paid to the system of paediatric medical assistance, because the current children’s hospitals fall short of modern standards. Design work on a multifunctional children’s health centre or hospital will begin in 2019. In this context, Andrei Bocharov asked the President to support their request that this hospital be included in the state healthcare programme in 2022.
Vladimir Putin said he would support this proposal.
Topics
Economy and finance
Healthcare
Regions
Social services
Persons
Bocharov Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 15, 2019, 13:30
Text version