Events
Meeting with heads of technology projects and NTI companies
Vladimir Putin met with the heads of technology projects and companies of the National Technology Initiative.
September 18, 2019
15:30
Moscow
1 of 4
At the meeting with heads of technology projects and NTI companies.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
We traditionally hold meetings of this kind as part of the Agency of Strategic Initiatives’ events. We continue to develop this agency and I think it was the right decision to create it.
As we move forward, things are becoming more interesting, diverse and useful for those who are involved in this and for whom all this is being done. I just looked at what was presented.
As I understand it, far from all ASI projects are presented here, but all areas of its activity are extremely important, involving modern technologies, end-to-end technologies, artificial intelligence and unmanned vehicles. They ultimately lead to the solution of social issues, also with the help of modern services, modern information platforms. All this is extremely important, extremely interesting and useful.
So let us exchange ideas, opinions, or even better – proposals on what else needs to be done, so that the progress is even more stable, steadier, and that we achieve our goals as quickly as possible.
To be continued.
See also
Visit to ASI Design Bureau exhibition
September 18, 2019
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2019, 15:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Premier of State Council of China Li Keqiang
September 18, 2019
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
Vladimir Putin received at the Kremlin the Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang.
Vladimir Putin received at the Kremlin the Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang.
During the meeting, the President of Russia expressed hope that he would have the chance to meet with President of China Xi Jinping
during the BRICS
and APEC summits in November.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Premier of the State Council, friends, I am delighted to welcome you in the Kremlin.
I am aware that you have an extensive programme. Yesterday, you were in St Petersburg and met with the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation. I am confident that your visit will give a strong boost to promoting our state-to-state economic ties.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate our Chinese friends on the upcoming holiday, the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China, which the Chinese people will celebrate on October 1. On October 2, we will together mark the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our states.
In this regard, I would like to note that our country, then the Soviet Union, was the first country to officially recognise new China. This is a big event in bilateral relations.
I would like to note that a very long distance has been covered in the history of bilateral cooperation over the past decades. Today, we really are strategic partners in the full sense of the word, and are implementing a comprehensive partnership that remains Russia’s unconditional foreign policy priority.
We are aware of how much you, Mr Prime Minister, and President Xi have done to promote Russian-Chinese relations in recent years. We highly appreciate this.
I am confident that you can see our efforts, efforts on the part of Russia aimed at expanding Russian-Chinese ties across all areas. There is probably no need to go over this right now.
The only thing I would like to say is that our interaction is, of course, the most important factor in international affairs and has become an important part of expanding our economies and achieving our states’ goals to improve our peoples’ living standards.
Thank you once again for this visit. I would like to thank you again for the contribution that the Government of the People's Republic of China is making to promote cooperation between our countries.
Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Li Keqiang (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President, for your congratulations on the upcoming 70th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China.
This year we are also celebrating the 70th anniversary of our diplomatic relations, We must congratulate each other on this anniversary. Using this opportunity, I would like to mention that President Xi Jinping sends you his best.
Recently, you met and reached new agreements on promoting bilateral relations. During my current visit, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev and I held the 24th regular meeting of the heads of government.
Indeed, we have come a long way – we have been holding regular meetings without fail for 20 years, and the agenda is continuously being filled with new content.
At the press meeting, we found it very difficult to briefly describe all of our areas of cooperation. Our cooperation promotes the development of not only our two countries but also the region and the world, especially considering the growing instability and uncertainty in the world, in the region and in the global economy.
China and Russia are the largest neighbouring countries. It is very important for us to continue strengthening our friendship, cooperation and mutual ties so we can pool our efforts in the future to ensure world order under the aegis of the UN, and maintain the system of free trade based on WTO rules, which is very important for developing global stability and security.
Vladimir Putin: Chairman Xi’s state visit to Russia was by all means the main event in this year’s bilateral relations.
I hope the President and I will have the chance to meet during two major events, BRICS and APEC, which will be held in Latin America in November.
Please convey my best regards and greetings to him.
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2019, 17:30
Text versionEvents
ASI Supervisory Board meeting
September 18, 2019
16:15
Moscow
1 of 7
Supervisory Board meeting of the autonomous non-profit organisation Agency for Strategic Initiatives to Promote New Projects.
Vladimir Putin chaired a Supervisory Board meeting of the autonomous non-profit organisation Agency for Strategic Initiatives to Promote New Projects. ASI Director General Svetlana Chupsheva
was the keynote speaker.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
By tradition, before the Supervisory Board meeting, we reviewed the agency’s performance and its new projects, which were very interesting, and I am here to confirm this.
I would like to thank everyone for the results, perseverance and courage, so to say, in advancing these undertakings. Most importantly, you are constantly building up your pace. Along with the experts and project leaders, you come up with effective and functional tools to promote these ideas and new initiatives that define the content, the logic of qualitative and breakthrough changes throughout the country. I strongly hope that what I saw today will be projected on the entire economy and the entire country.
Colleagues, I would like to emphasise that largely thanks to your efforts we have managed to launch important and significant processes. When teams – and these include startups, entrepreneurs, volunteers and simply energetic people – come together in close-knit communities of like-minded people, it always brings concrete and positive results. In order to jointly promote not just individual, but major system-wide projects, it is mandatory to be able to work as a team, to build these teams and work as teams.
I have no doubt that the 39th Boiling Point, which the Agency opened here in the Commune House, and which, one might say, is an institution that is unique in terms of content, will become one such think tank. Today, we see think tanks like this developing across different industries.
I hope the agency will continue to participate, enthusiastically and substantively, in the creation and implementation of the broader agenda of Russia’s future – primarily in all the areas on which our technological sovereignty and, ultimately, the quality of people’s life depend.
The first thing I would like to point out is the development of new formats of education, of course. Today I carefully listened to the reports and looked through the printed materials and videos presented. All of that is definitely curious. I did not say anything, I commented on some things, but I noted a few things that undoubtedly attract attention. One of them is the mutual learning between AI systems and a human, when a person and an AI teach each other – that seemed to me like a transitional model of development in education, which could lead to completely unexpected and amazing results.
Seven years ago, ASI proposed joining WorldSkills. Participation in this international initiative, the victories of our team became an incentive for improving the entire personnel training system. Using the experience gained, we now need to develop advanced models of training in the professions of the future. We need to introduce lifelong learning formats for people of all ages. Some speakers talked about this today and it sounded very interesting, convincingly showing how effective work in this area can be. This is an extremely important area, considering the upcoming demographic changes and changes in the labour market.
The second point is creating an environment for breakthrough technological development. At a meeting with entrepreneurs, we spoke in detail about eliminating legal and other barriers for domestic companies and startups. As a result, instructions will be drawn up for government ministries and agencies. And I would like to repeat that this work should be carried out in direct contact with the Agency and those involved in the National Technology Initiative.
Third. I hope you remember that in my Address to the Federal Assembly this year I instructed ASI to launch, in cooperation with business associations, a special digital platform to allow entrepreneurs to report cases of pressure on their businesses. Now, proposals on what and how to do in this area have been submitted. This is not easy. I decided not to comment on it, either. I know how my colleagues reacted to some of these proposals. However, I would like to assure you that I will do everything I can for this proposed system to be introduced, whether in an improved version or in any functional form. I do not see any danger in it for law enforcement bodies. The only purpose is to make their work more efficient, to meet today’s needs and ensure the interests of society as a whole, both individual citizens and the business community in general.
Fourthly, we need to create conditions for developing the volunteer movement for the productive cooperation of the state, business and NGOs in the social area. This issue is extremely important for society and my colleagues are always interested in it. In part, we need to monitor compliance with the law on social entrepreneurship, which you will also take a direct part in drafting.
Relying on a new legislative foundation, it is necessary to launch social projects. I am referring, in part, to training and employment programmes for older people. I talked about this earlier. I am referring to the dissemination of experience of long-term caring for sick and elderly people, the development of career guidance and additional education for teenagers and the construction of modern facilities for children’s recreation.
Next. Support for community initiatives in cities and towns. I really liked one of the programmes presented here today, which I hope can make community improvement work, especially public landscaping and infrastructure, more efficient. This involves direct contact with local residents, which is an opportunity to understand and identify their needs and act on them, take them into account not just on paper, not for show, but in real life. I think this is extremely relevant. I ask the agency to propose new effective tools for direct and, very importantly, continuous feedback, interactive work with the people.
There is one more area of your activity that I would like to highlight. Under one of the projects, you are systematically collecting successful regional practices of socioeconomic development. The resulting extensive database, I just said this, a kind of library of management solutions is in many ways unique. Now we need to create a working mechanism for the dissemination of such practices throughout the country, also through the development of standards, a sort of methodological recommendations for the Russian regions. By the way, you have been doing similar work on the business climate and support for volunteer initiatives.
And of course, we need to promote our successful experience in implementing development projects at the global level. I talked about this at the St Petersburg Economic Forum this year, if you heard it. Moreover, there is a demand for effective management solutions from other countries and international organisations.
Let us discuss everything that you think we need to discuss today.
<…>
See also
Visit to ASI Design Bureau exhibition
September 18, 2019
Meeting with heads of technology projects and NTI companies
September 18, 2019
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2019, 16:15
Text version