Events
Meeting with President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
In the run-up to the Russia-Africa Summit in Sochi, Vladimir Putin met with President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, African Union Chairman and Co-Chairman of the Russia-Africa Summit Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.
October 23, 2019
10:45
Sochi
1 of 5
Meeting with President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, African Union Chairman and Co-Chairman of the Russia-Africa Summit Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to Russia.
At the beginning of our meeting, I would like to thank you for your support during our preparations for the summit’s events that involve the heads of state and government from African states and Russia, and which are scheduled to take place today and tomorrow. We are hosting such a large-scale event for the first time, and your support was vitally important and timely.
As for our bilateral relations, they continue to develop very successfully. In 2018, our trade increased by 14 percent and reached $7.7 billion. We continue to implement ambitious projects that have been coordinated by us, including a nuclear power plant and an industrial zone in Egypt. We are working very actively in these areas, and we are planning to invest $190 million in infrastructure development projects and to attract up to $7 billion.
See also
All news about the trip to Sochi. Russia-Africa Summit
By the way, I have recently visited our common friends in the United Arab Emirates. They became extremely interested in our joint project and will also think of how to become involved in our joint industrial development plans.
We have many infrastructure and transport projects.
Mr President, we maintain constant personal contacts: this is our third meeting in 2019. Cooperation between our foreign ministries and security services includes a broad range of issues on the international agenda, the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome.
President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
(retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President.
First of all, I would like to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation for your hospitality and the warm welcome I have been given in this wonderful city of Sochi.
Mr President, I would like to thank you for holding the first Russia-Africa Summit. Our relations have a long history in many fields and spheres, starting with Russia’s support to the liberation movement in Africa. I would like to say that we are interested in coordinating our efforts with Russia so as to ensure the success of both the summit and the forum. We strongly hope that thanks to the contribution from many African countries we will attain practical results in the interests of all countries and parties based on mutually beneficial cooperation.
I would like to point out that we view Russia as a reliable partner of the African continent. We hope very much that Russia will be working in Africa in all spheres and fields, including in that of the development, as well as in the financing of infrastructure projects on the continent and in particular in energy and road construction.
As for bilateral relations, Mr President, I would like to assure you of our high appreciation of our bilateral relations, which are developing in various formats, especially after we signed a comprehensive cooperation agreement. We sincerely hope that our relations will continue to develop in all fields and spheres.
I would like to speak about the spheres where we will be working together. Speaking about the Russian Industrial Zone, we have a strong interest in accelerating the implementation of this project in the Suez Canal Economic Zone. We also want to settle all the outstanding problems, so that Russian companies and enterprises come to Egypt, register and start working in this zone.
We highly appreciate our bilateral relations in the sphere of railway lines and the manufacturing of train carriages in Egypt. We hope very much that the Russian company concerned will be able to work in Egypt, especially after it has delivered 1,300 carriages to the country.
As for the nuclear power plant, we set a high value on our bilateral cooperation. We strongly hope that all topics related to this project will be settled without delay so that we can start implementing the project in accordance with the signed contract.
Mr President, I would like to invite you to visit Egypt once again so as to be able to attend the ground-breaking ceremony of this vital project and also to attend the signing of the contract on the Russian Industrial Zone in Egypt.
Mr President, we also hope that the Russian side will provide support to nuclear energy facilities in Egypt so that we can work and act in accordance with the approved schedule.
As for military cooperation, we have a strong interest in promoting our cooperation in this sphere, because we know that Russia has been a traditional partner in the field of military technical cooperation for many decades.
<…>
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Egypt
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
el-Sisi Abdel Fattah
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2019, 10:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Namibia Hage Gottfried Geingob
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Namibia Hage Gottfried Geingob in Sochi.
October 23, 2019
12:40
Sochi
1 of 6
With President of the Republic of Namibia Hage Gottfried Geingob.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
Welcome to Russia.
To start with, I would like to note that next year we will be marking an important date – the 30th anniversary of independence of Namibia and the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries.
Over these years, an atmosphere of mutual understanding and trust has formed between our countries. We appreciate the Namibian leadership’s position of support of our initiatives at the UN, as well as of Russian candidates at various international organisations.
I would like to point out that our political dialogue is developing, and we can see a positive trend when it comes to trade and economic ties. Trade grew more than seven times last year.
We have good prospects in an entire range of fields. This includes energy. Exploration of mineral resources, in particular, Namibia’s uranium resources, can become an important part of our cooperation. Russia is the fifth largest producer of uranium raw material in the world. Russia, as a world leader in nuclear energy and nuclear fuel production, and Namibia, as a major uranium producer, could establish close cooperation and become good partners.
Such spheres as joint exploration of fields potentially rich in vanadium, copper, gold and other minerals is also quite an interesting area of cooperation. We have a legal basis for this. In 2016, we signed intergovernmental agreements on cooperation in geology and mineral resources as well as a memorandum of understanding between Zarubezhgeologiya and a Namibian company.
We also have potentially interesting offers in the diamond industry. Our largest diamond producer, Alrosa, is ready to host a Namibian delegation in Moscow to discuss matters of mutual interest.
See also
All news about the trip to Sochi. Russia-Africa Summit
We also have interesting prospects in transport. The United Wagon Company is negotiating with a company from Namibia to upgrade railways and supply freight cars and spare parts; they are also discussing an opportunity for SKD assembly on the spot, in Namibia.
Construction of surface facilities for air travel can also be economically advantageous. Our companies are interested in working together in hydropower engineering.
We are ready to promote cooperation in the field of agriculture, for example, to import Namibian food products, such as meat and fish. We hope to organise counter trading of our animal products to Namibia and to expand our exports of grain and fertilisers.
Mr President, we have a lot of interesting fields when it comes to cooperation. I would like your visit to encourage our economic operators to work more actively.
Thank you very much.
President of Namibia Hage Gottfried Geingob: Thank you very much for this opportunity.
To us – we are former freedom fighters, who fought against colonialism – Russia has always been there, where our people were oppressed. So those of us from Namibia, SWAPO Party, although its name has changed, it was the Russian people, who were welcoming us, taking care of us, sharing the trenches in Africa. Difficult times for some of them. So I am very honoured to meet you, we are glad to renew now the relationships. During the difficult times we are together. Now it is time when our old friends can come and see how we can cooperate in what we are calling as our second phase of the struggle, that of economic emancipation. So I am glad to say that already our military people instructed me to say they want to have Russian military advisors and so on, to start with.
As for the other many things Your Excellency mentioned. Our bilateral relations are good, but not as good as they could be because of the old relations we had. The areas you’ve mentioned are all important. I was surprised you have mentioned already what I was supposed to mention. Education, we have students who are studying here, doctors, medical doctors.
Energy is the biggest problem and issue that we can discuss. Uranium we have, we don’t use it ourselves. Our friends who can use it, can come and call as law as we said earlier. But before that I must thank you for not leaving our country in a serious trouble, and you came to our aid, so thank you very much. About uranium, yes, we are uranium producing country and we will be welcoming those who would like to come and use it.
<…>
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Namibia
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 23, 2019, 12:40
Text version