Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Government members at the Kremlin.
December 11, 2019
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
Meeting with Government members.
The participants focused on expanding regional air transport services.
They also discussed creating electronic employment records, promoting employment for people with disabilities and expanding international cultural cooperation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Before we begin, I have several points to make. Mr Medvedev and I discussed them just now. A number of laws on creating digital employment records will enter into force on January 1, 2020. This change will affect approximately 60 million employees. This is a major project, and I will ask Mr Topilin to comment on it. Please, go ahead.
Minister of Labour and Social Protection Maxim Topilin: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
Indeed, we will start working on this on January 1. On December 3, the State Duma adopted two laws in the third reading, specifically, amendments to the Labour Code and amendments to the Law on Personal Accounting.
The Federation Council approved these laws just an hour ago, and a smooth transition period will begin on January 1 to convert from paper-based records, which has been the tradition in Russia for 100 years, to keeping these data in the Pension Fund’s electronic database.
(The Minister went on to describe in detail how the transition to digital employment records will be carried out, importantly, on a voluntary basis. Employees will decide on the form of employment records themselves.)
We continue working to this end. Yet another draft law was approved at the most recent Government meeting. It provides for conducting an experiment next year related to corporate in-house staff-related paperwork. A number of large companies, such as Russian Railways, Mechel and VimpelCom, to name a few, have agreed to be part of a pilot programme. This project calls for a careful approach to ensure the information is intact and records are kept properly. We decided to first run this as a pilot programme to be able to amend the law later. This will be done on a voluntary basis and be free of charge for the employees, as there is a need to purchase various services and keys. All of that will be done at the employer’s expense. We will work on this and report back to you on the progress.
Vladimir Putin: Now over to another matter. We have 12 million people in the country (right, Ms Golikova?) with health issues. And one of the key problems in this regard and in this area is the employment of people with health limitations and disabilities. One way or another, we are approaching this issue from different angles, and are constantly working on this. Yet, in my opinion, one of the best strategies is career counselling for young people with disabilities. There is the Abilympics International Championship, which Russia will host in 2021. This is a professional skills contest for people with disabilities.
Ms Golikova, where are we now with regard to preparations for this event? I know that we have been holding national events, nationwide competitions.
Go ahead, please.
Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister,
In 2021, Russia, Moscow, will host the 10th Abilympics International Professional Skills Championship. But it will be preceded by national championships.
In November 2019, a national championship was held in Moscow at VDNKh and attended by 1,800 participants from 84 regions who competed in 62 core competencies and 31 for presentation. <…> As many as 10,000 spectators attended the event. Along with the actual contestants, this 5th national championship, which was held in Moscow, also attracted a rather large pool of volunteers – 520 people from around Russia, from 44 regions. The winners were awarded 540 medals including 181 gold, 181 silver and 178 bronze medals. Representatives of 68 regions of the Russian Federation received awards.
As you correctly noted, this is definitely a high-profile event that always attracts a large number of participants and those who are interested in watching the competition. But the main goal is finding employment for people who have the appropriate competencies.
It is important that 72 employers in Russia have joined this effort. The pool of employers expanded in 2018 with Sberbank, VTB Bank, and a number of hotel chains, where people with disabilities can work effectively.
This national championship, in fact, kicked off preparations for the 10th Abilympics International Championship. The Abilympics International Federation was very appreciative of Russia’s readiness to host it.
The event is tentatively scheduled for the end of May 2021. It will include 55 competencies, of which ten will be for presentation. We expect 1,000 participants, 500 accompanying persons, 1,500 participants in the business programme and more than 10,000 spectators.
(Tatyana Golikova further discussed the details of preparations for the 10th International Championship.)
Although this is quite a challenge for our community of 12 million people with disabilities, on the other hand, it is a very important event. We strongly hope that the Abilympics in 2021 will make as big a contribution to their development, as the WorldSkills Championship held in Kazan did for people without disabilities.
Therefore, I hope that we will complete all the preparatory events at a high level and that our team will certainly perform at a high level, and we wish good luck and all the best to our participants.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Golodets, two days ago, at the meeting with the Federal Chancellor of Germany, we recalled the cultural events, the Russian Seasons that are now about to end in Germany. What can you say about these events and what is our next step?
Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets: Mr President, Mr Prime Minister,
True, the Russian Seasons project, which was a great success in Germany, concluded in Hamburg on December 7. The closing ceremony was attended by Mr Schroeder, German officials and over 2,000 spectators.
The Moscow Soloists [Chamber Orchestra] led by Yury Bashmet performed. It was an outstanding and memorable performance, and both the German audience and German officials warmly thanked Russia for holding the Russian Seasons in Germany.
Let me briefly describe the history of the Russian Seasons.
Under your personal instructions, we renewed them in 2016, while their history goes back to Sergei Diaghilev’s 1908 projects. This is an old tradition, to show the best pieces of classic and modern Russian art to foreign audiences. This tradition has not simply been renewed, but it has gained a lot of popularity.
The first year, 2017, was successfully held in Japan, followed by 2018 in Italy. The total number of audience members in the two countries reached about 9 million.
Russian Seasons events in Germany were held in 85 cities. There was a festival of Tchaikovsky music, concerts dedicated to World War II, a performance by the Turetsky Choir, and the Tchaikovsky Orchestra in Bonn, the Carmen ice musical in Düsseldorf as well as many other notable cultural events.
It is very important for us that Russian Seasons do not end the year they are held, but that serious cooperation between specialists and nations continue with other projects. For example, the Trans-Siberian Festival has become a tradition after the Seasons in Japan, and now is held both in Russia and in Japan.
Following the Year of Germany, we have already agreed to organise a large exhibition that will be held at the Tretyakov Gallery as a response and include German museums and German curators.
We are ready to hold the next Russian Seasons. As you have said, they will take place in France. On January 16, they will begin with Uncle Vanya at the Odeon Theatre. Our French colleagues’ proposal was unexpected. They asked us to open the grand programme of the Russian Seasons with Russian classics, a work by Anton Chekhov, to be more specific.
A tour of the Bolshoi Theatre and several exhibits are scheduled. There will be many new colourful pieces that French audiences have not seen yet. It is especially good that for the first time the Russian Seasons in France will include the National Youth Orchestra. This is also a premiere of sorts. It will take place on November 30 at the Paris Philharmonic Hall.
Vladimir Putin: Very well. I hope the preparations for this event will go as planned, and the quality of the works we present and the performances we stage will be at the highest level, just as it always is.
Let us now turn to the main item on today’s agenda. We will discuss the development of regional and local air route networks.
Unfortunately, as we know all too well, quite often in order to get from one destination to another within a single region people have to make a connection in Moscow. This is not the way it should be. We have said many times that something has to be done about this. In this context, it is clear that we will have to ensure that efforts to develop air route networks in the Russian regions are aligned with the overall plan to modernise and expand key infrastructure in general, including developing airports, passenger terminals, building new runways, etc. Of course, this primarily relates to Russia’s Far East, the extreme north, and eastern Siberia, without forgetting European Russia.
We need to make these routes economically attractive for the airlines. This could include introducing various kinds of protective tariffs, working with the price of jet fuel, and other measures. It is important that airfares remain at a level that people can afford. This is the only way regional and local air service can operate and develop effectively.
That said, there is no getting away from personnel training, primarily pilot training. Every element of this matters, including the pay level, because these factors definitely affect the labour market. One decision instantly leads to another, and so on.
Finally, we need to understand whether manufacturers are ready to produce the aircraft that will be needed, and whether they can be competitive on the global market in terms of price, quality and safety requirements.
I suggest we get down to work.
<…>
Topics
Culture
Disabled individuals
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 11, 2019, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with LDPR Leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky on the occasion of the party’s 30th anniversary.
December 11, 2019
22:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With leader of Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky.
The President noted that the LDPR has become a major political factor in Russia and that it has greatly contributed to the country’s development through its work in the parliament and other fields. Vladimir Putin added that Vladimir Zhirinovsky
has always acted from positions of patriotism to ensure that the country is more prosperous, stronger and more confident and that the people live better.
Vladimir Zhirinovsky thanked the President and updated him on some facts from the history of his party and recent initiatives. He also said that the LDPR has the youngest group of deputies at the State Duma, with the average age being 37. The LDPR leader added that the party is working energetically across the country.
Topics
Parties
Persons
Zhirinovsky Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 11, 2019, 22:30
Text versionEvents
Reception to celebrate Heroes of Fatherland Day
Vladimir Putin spoke at a reception to mark Heroes of the Fatherland Day.
December 11, 2019
18:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 9
Reception celebrating Heroes of the Fatherland Day.
Over 350 members of the military and civilians who displayed particular courage and heroism have been invited to attend the event at St George Hall in the Grand Kremlin Palace. The participants included Heroes of the Soviet Union, Heroes of the Russian Federation, and full cavaliers of the Order of St George.
The tradition of holding annual receptions to celebrate Heroes of the Fatherland Day, marked on December 9, was resumed in 2013.
* * *
Speech at the reception in honour of Heroes of the Fatherland Day
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Today we honour Heroes of Russia, Heroes of the Soviet Union, and holders of the Orders of Glory and St George, and pay tribute to people whose names are forever recorded in the annals of courage and bravery at the service to their Fatherland.
Even the place where we are at now, St George Hall at the Kremlin, represents their valour, and by tradition we celebrate Heroes of the Fatherland Day here. It is a hall of our military glory, and a symbol of selfless service to Russia.
We honour all those who have defended the freedom and independence of our country. We commemorate the heroic deeds of the famous generals and fearless soldiers. We pay tribute to the feat of the Russian army of 1812 and to those who gave their lives on the battlefields of the First World War. And those who defeated Nazism and won a grandiose, historic victory in the Great Patriotic War are rightfully referred to as the heroic generation.
Love for the Fatherland is a sacred feeling for our people. It moves us forward, and gives strength to withstand all trials. And it makes any enemy tremble and retreat.
Gathered here in St George Hall are veterans of the Great Patriotic War as well as young people, military service members who have accomplished the most difficult tasks both in Russia and abroad, and civilian professionals who have shown resilience and courage in performing their professional duties.
Each of you, friends, knows – one who performs a heroic deed never thinks about recognition or awards at that moment. At the difficult, decisive moment, you do what your conscience and sense of duty – your military and human duty – tell you and show exceptional personal courage saving people or serving the Fatherland. Such selfless acts are always appreciated by the state.
We in Russia honour our heroes and remember those who have fulfilled their duty, including at the cost of their own lives. May their memory live on forever.
Friends, we have recently marked the 250th anniversary of the Order of St George. It is the highest military award of the Russian Empire and of modern Russia. And here, in St George Hall, where the spirit of devotion to the Fatherland reigns, we deeply feel the continuity of our country’s history. We take pride and strength in this continuity of our traditions of courage and patriotism.
Friends, from the bottom of my heart, I sincerely wish you all the best on the occasion of Heroes of the Fatherland Day. I wish you all the best and offer a toast – to our heroes, to our Fatherland, to Russia!
Topics
Armed Forces
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 11, 2019, 18:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Accounts Chamber Chairman Alexei Kudrin
The President had a working meeting with Chairman of the Russian Accounts Chamber Alexei Kudrin. The discussion focused, in particular, on the results of performance monitoring of the National Projects conducted by the Accounts Chamber.
December 11, 2019
21:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Chairman of the Accounts Chamber Alexei Kudrin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Please go ahead, Mr Kudrin.
Accounts Chamber Chairman Alexei Kudrin: Mr President, the Accounts Chamber is monitoring the implementation of national goals and the National Projects. We identify and explore the issues that pose a risk in their implementation, and look for proposals and recommendations to achieve these goals and National Projects.
This year, we analysed all the National Projects and reviewed them at a board meeting attended by representatives of the ministries and departments that are responsible for these projects. We have generally identified the issues that the ministries found important; as a rule, they were grateful for all our comments, and are now working on the issues mentioned.
As for the key issues, I would like to say that, first of all, some of the targets stipulated in the Presidential Executive Order are not fully reflected in the National Projects. For example, the Environment project states the need to ensure clean water, but it does not include the regions or districts and towns that still have no centralised water supply. And there are more such discrepancies.
Vladimir Putin: As far as I know, there is a separate programme on water supply.
Alexei Kudrin: Yes, we have a programme for clean water supply, but its targets do not include all residents. For example, as I said, places where there is no centralised water supply, those regions are not covered in the National Project targets.
Or, for example, environmental safety in the Volga River basin. There are 29 regions that affect the river’s environment, but only 16 are participating in the National Project, while the others are not tasked with reducing pollution in the Volga basin. And so on.
In each case, we analysed every performance indicator and the achievement of the final goal and noted that there are cases in almost every project when National Project indicators, and sometimes even their implementation, do not always help achieve the final goal. They must be adjusted and perhaps even made to include a broader range of issues.
We also analyse the methods used to measure these indicators and have already found a lot of inaccuracies, which the ministries are reviewing now. We have determined the measures needed to achieve these indicators and concluded that in many cases, there are not enough of them or they do not sufficiently influence the project’s implementation, including in financing. We have analysed this and provided our recommendations.
For example, it is obvious now that regarding such a project as Safe and High-Quality Roads, many regions –21 regions, according to our estimates – cannot provide the required quality of roads in line with the project’s goals even in six years: the figure stands at 50.9 percent regionally. So 21 regions have not found the necessary measures or financing and see no opportunity to achieve the necessary indicators. This means that additional steps and measures are needed, including possible support.
The same goes for the Housing and Urban Environment projects. Many regions are not ready to say that they can fulfil the tasks that were set. They signed the agreement but believe that something will be added over the six years, that there will be additional opportunities or aid that will make it possible to implement them. We can see these risks.
Other issues include insufficiently detailed planning of the regional programmes related to the implementation of these goals. Originally, it was expected that most of these programmes will be implemented with federal resources, but the regions have to raise large sums of money to create infrastructure for housing and maintenance. Now we can see that even during the first year, the programmes are being implemented on a “fifty-fifty” basis, which means that the regions have to allocate additional resources.
The mobilisation of extra-budgetary funds is lagging behind, and there are not enough incentives to attract extra-budgetary funds. There is not enough risk management analysis. In fact, we do not have this component at all in project management; it is not developed. Some things may not go as planned, but there are special risks we must focus on and work with them in a timely fashion.
The guidelines for the development of the National Projects stipulate that each National Project’s impact on economic growth should be assessed. Yet, none of the National Projects has so far fully met this requirement.
Vladimir Putin: Frankly speaking, this is one of the reasons why we are doing this.
Alexei Kudrin: This job has not been completed yet, and we also pointed this out.
Furthermore, there are two more discrepancies that I would like to mention here. There are work plans for ministries and departments, approved every year for a long period of time, approximately six years. However, the recently approved plans do not include half of the National Projects’ targets. This means that the ministries’ and departments’ routine ongoing work does not always correlate with the National Projects. Some 50 percent of these targets are included in their planned current tasks, but the other half is not.
As regards state programmes – they have their own targets, too. But 75 percent of state programme targets are not included in the current work plans of ministries and departments either. Therefore, there is an imbalance between certain individual planning documents and strategic planning documents.
And finally, about the achievement of the end goals set by the President. Executive Order No. 204 states that the national goals are the main result to be achieved in six years; the National Projects should be adopted and implemented to achieve these national goals. There are twelve such projects, and a 13th document – a comprehensive plan for the development of mainline infrastructure.
Vladimir Putin: So what about the goals then?
Alexei Kudrin: There is no action plan yet. The so-called unified plan for achieving the national goals has been adopted, but it is very sketchy and general and does not even use the terminology of a plan. All it says is that overall, all the actions taken under the National Projects as well as additional activities should ultimately lead to the achievement of the national goals. But there are no specific plans; they are still in the works. I hope that the Government will present the final versions soon, but so far, they are not in place.
It appears that we have already formulated the tasks and documents at the lower level of the National Projects, but the steps to be taken for the achievement of the national goals still have to be identified, and perhaps this will require additional measures.
Therefore, we have identified all the errors or adjustments that need to be made and we have sent proposals to the ministries and agencies. The documents have been sent to the Government, and the ministries are now working on correcting the discrepancies that we have identified.
Vladimir Putin: And what about the implementation of financial plans for the National Projects? There were issues with the funding, amounts, and the money actually reaching the contractors.
Alexei Kudrin: It so happened that most of the National Projects were launched as of January 1. But part of the activities under these projects were not fully agreed on and formulated until the middle of the year. That is why their financing and execution was delayed. Cumulatively, all the National Projects were executed 67 percent as of November 1, while progress on some of them was less than 20 percent by that time.
But we believe the progress is accelerating now. It is true that the funding plans for this year will not be fully implemented. Some projects are faring quite well – progress on some of them reached 89 percent on November 1. But we hope to show a smoother performance next year.
We are looking into the reasons why this happened. The most obvious one is that some of the National Projects were finalised too late, and some investment projects included therein required additional project design and estimation work; also, there are a number of procedures related to tenders, to bidding, which take a long time, sometimes even longer than planned. That is why we have seen a serious under-fulfillment of the National Projects this year.
It is difficult to say now how much of the government allocations will be pending at the end of the year. Maybe more than 100 billion rubles will be unused. Maybe even 200. In federal budget terms, we expect non-execution of federal spending at about 1 trillion rubles. This, of course, is something that never happened before. Last year, it was 770 billion.
Vladimir Putin: I have to say this really is a bit too much.
Alexei Kudrin: Yes, indeed. This is also the Finance Ministry forecast, but on the whole, the State Duma agreed with it while reviewing this year’s budget. This suggests that some procedures are hindered by too much bureaucracy. So we need to think of a way to reduce the bureaucracy and simplify the procedures relating to federal resources.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Persons
Kudrin Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 11, 2019, 21:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Russian Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee
The Kremlin hosted a meeting, chaired by Vladimir Putin, of the Russian Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee on preparations for the Year of Remembrance and Glory, and preserving the memory and preventing the falsification of the history of the Great Patriotic War.
December 11, 2019
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 14
Meeting of the Russian Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee.
Among other things, the participants discussed ways to support veterans, to promote the fallen war heroes search units’ activities and to implement the project Beyond the Statute of Limitations, as well as to conduct military memorial activities, in particular, the construction of the Soviet Soldier Memorial in Rzhev.
The Pobeda Organising Committee includes senior officials from the Presidential Executive Office, the Government, the Federation Council, the State Duma, federal executive bodies, and presidential envoys to federal districts and representatives of a number of public organisations.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Next year will mark the 75th anniversary of the Great Victory in World War II, the Great Patriotic War, and will be held in Russia as the Year of Remembrance and Glory. We need to join our efforts to fill it with heartfelt, expressive and memorable content, and preclude any chance of adopting a perfunctory or formal approach to organising events wherever they may take place, in a major city or a small rural town. There are heroes of the Great Patriotic War – front-line soldiers and home front workers – everywhere. They must receive the highest and most cordial attention and care. Heads of regions, and even more so, heads of municipalities must be aware of the needs of each veteran and respond to their requests quickly and in full.
Particular attention should be paid to preserving the memory of the Great Patriotic War and its heroes. I am talking about updating museum displays and holding special exhibitions, events and scientific and practical conferences, including systematic introduction of archival documents into scientific circulation, so that they are accessible to the public, including the use of modern digital technology and online platforms.
Local authorities must constantly control issues related to the maintenance of military memorials. Strict compliance with the standards of inspecting and registering newly found common graves envisaged by law must also be a priority.
It is also important to actively support corresponding public initiatives, cooperate with search parties, volunteers, local historians and enthusiasts, those who are interested in this and invest their heart, time and years of their lives – everyone who educates young people with their actions rather than just words and helps teenagers and children take in such values as love for their Fatherland and understanding what Fatherland means for people and citizens and why it must be cared for. This is a truly educational mission based on personal example, sincere actions and important results that are clear to everyone.
This must be considered in the development of the new programme, Patriotic Education of the Citizens of the Russian Federation. The current programme expires in 2020, and I am asking the Ministry of Education together with the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the Ministry of Culture, and other concerned agencies and specialised public organisations to not work too long on the new document.
A well thought out, and importantly, honest patriotic agenda in accordance with the views of today’s youth must strengthen in the generations to come the basic values tested by life itself and reflect our traditions and national identity as well as the entire history of Russia with its trials and triumphs.
The Great Patriotic War, of course, plays a special role in this. It has left a deep trace in the lives of the peoples of the Soviet Union and the Russian Federation and is inseparable from the history of every Russian family. This is the foundation of what we have done and will do; I mean protection of the historic truth and the names of our heroes.
Attempts to distort this historical truth never stop. In addition to distortions by the heirs of Nazi accomplices, now this has been happening at some respectable international institutions and European agencies.
You know that the European Parliament’s recent resolution virtually equated Nazi aggressors with the Soviet Union. They just about blame the USSR, along with Nazi Germany, for unleashing the Second World War. As if they had forgotten who attacked Poland on September 1, 1939, and the Soviet Union on June 22, 1941.
And anyone who tries to argue with such unfounded and brazen lies are in advance accused of an “information war against a democratic Europe”, this is a quote.
Our answer to these lies is the truth. We will continue to speak about events and facts of the Great Patriotic War and to disclose and publish full archival materials. It seems that some of our opponents either cannot read or write, or they do not have eyes, and they pretend to know nothing.
But we will speak about this, including the victories and defeats of the Red Army, the tragic fate of our war prisoners, the courage of the underground and the shame of the collaborators, the Holocaust tragedy and crimes against civilians, and the atrocities of the nationalists who were Hitler’s minions.
I am convinced that there are no, and cannot be any, “unprofitable” or “inconvenient” pages in history. This is necessary in the aggregate, as a single whole, both for us and for our future generations, which is especially important, without any embellishment or distortion.
Memory and pride should unite us, make us stronger, help young people fully realise their engagement with the Motherland, the great deeds of their ancestors, and responsibility for the future of Russia. This is what should become the main spiritual meaning of the Year of Memory and Glory. And the main activity, I repeat, should be real and targeted support, concern for veterans.
Let us discuss all of this.
<…>
See also
News of the Pobeda (Victory) Committee
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Pobeda (Victory) Committee
Publication date: December 11, 2019, 17:30
Text version