Events
Meeting on flood relief operations in the Far East
Vladimir Putin held a meeting at the Emergencies Ministry’s Crisis Management Centre on flood relief operations in the Far East.
September 17, 2019
17:45
Moscow
4 of 4
Meeting on flood relief operations in the Far East.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Hello, colleagues,
This year we have more than once discussed the situation in the Irkutsk Region where two flooding disasters occurred, one right after the other, including on site, often directly with local residents. Meanwhile, large natural disasters also affected other regions, primarily in the Far East.
In attendance today are the heads of the Amur and the Jewish Autonomous regions and the Khabarovsk Territory. The Trans-Baikal Territory, the Magadan Region and the Republic of Buryatia, which were affected by flooding earlier, are staying connected.
Situation reports indicate that we have in general passed the peak of the flooding; let’s hope for that. Towns and buildings are gradually emerging from the water. The pre-emptive measures taken after the massive 2013 flooding helped avoid certain tragic and critical consequences. The National Crisis Management Centre of the Russian Emergencies Ministry has been effective. However, there are no final data on the damage, the number of households, enterprises or infrastructure facilities affected. Dozens of towns, villages, and several hundred residential houses remain flooded. This is why I would like to stress the first and key matter: people cannot be left alone to face these problems.
Everyone – I want to say that I have said this a number of times but I will emphasise it again – everyone who suffered as a result of the flooding must receive support, must be informed of their rights and the allowances they are entitled to under the law; they must be able to get this assistance immediately and must know where to apply for it. Unfortunately, this is not always happening.
People still encounter callousness and red tape, which are all too common in our bureaucracy. I ask you to properly instruct your subordinates to conduct this work responsibly and consistently. And ask the heads of the regions to personally visit the affected areas without delegating this to anybody else so as to see the situation with their own eyes, to talk to the people and understand what needs to be done.
Second, housing. This is the most serious and sensitive issue for everyone who had to leave their homes, while autumn and winter are almost upon us. Our task is to provide assistance quickly and efficiently and to address housing issues as soon as possible, considering the approaching colds.
Third is to provide support to the elderly and lonely people as well as the disabled. We should not wait for their requests. The authorities must attend to everyone, find out what they need, help fill in the necessary documents and papers (or do it for them, if necessary), support, submit the documents where necessary and, most importantly, control all this and see that the work is done. Do not just forget about these papers, but see this through.
Of course, the focus must also be on children; they must have everything they need: a place at school or kindergarten; and comfortable transport is also necessary if children have to go to a different school.
Next, we have to restore energy and road infrastructure facilities and transport and normalise the operation of residential utility services as soon as possible. I am not even mentioning healthcare services, which must remain high quality and accessible regardless of the institution people turn to: whether it’s based on their place of residence or not.
Of course, we must evaluate the damage to businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises and farms.
On the whole, today I am asking you to report briefly and clearly on the developments, to provide an analysis of the current situation and the necessary measures: what additional assistance the federal authorities or the government needs to provide and what the immediate needs and problems are.
I have to bring your attention to the fact that, according to incoming information, so far the disaster relief operations at the regional and local levels are not always carried out quickly or relevantly to the problems people face. This includes housing inspections and compiling the lists of victims. This makes it impossible to organise assistance or determine the size of federal support.
We have no information on these critical issues to organise the work so far. No information yet. We continue to receive requests, but there are no documents or grounds for these requests. How can we make any decisions without documentation? Why are you stalling? Let me remind you that the heads of the regions and municipalities are directly responsible for this.
Let’s discuss these issues.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 17, 2019, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov
The President met in the Kremlin with leader of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (KPRF) faction in the State Duma Gennady Zyuganov.
September 17, 2019
20:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Zyuganov, as you know, I regularly meet with the leaders of the party factions represented in the Duma to discuss current affairs, general issues and prospects. Please go ahead.
Leader of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (KPRF) faction in the State Duma Gennady Zyuganov: Thank you. This is a good tradition and it must be maintained.
Mr President, the elections have just ended. They have been the most massively attended and most interesting lately. We have drafted a programme, ”Ten Steps to a Dignified Life,“ a development budget, which you and I discussed at a meeting dedicated to the Government report, 25 trillion rubles. There is our unique experience of creating Zhores Alferov Academic University – you also supported this idea, by the way. It is now being carried out in Novosibirsk where our candidate, Lokot, won the mayoral election. We are ready to implement the programme ”Science of the 21st Century.“ It deserves special attention. Our experience of people’s enterprises – there are over 200 such enterprises now; we have summed it up and shown a series of films.
All this was supported by the voters. We doubled and tripled the results in the regions, and our team in Moscow did very well (13 deputies vs 4 before), and we are ready to further implement all programmes, primarily the ones mentioned in your Address.
I believe the time is ripe to enter the global stages of economic development. You recently gathered your economists, I watched carefully, and I think this is an absolutely achievable goal. We are now forming a budget for the next three years in conjunction with the Government and the ministers. We all need to work hard to implement this programme.
The election is over. I think it makes sense to gather all the leaders of the Duma party factions and discuss ways to repair the electoral system. Some say, ”electronics,“ others have different ideas. If we discuss this, we will find a solution that will consolidate the country and the political system. We are ready to do this work.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
We are constantly discussing matters of this kind with you, including with regard to the country’s political system. It is a living organism, and we must watch how the existing tools work in real life and what needs to be fixed in the process, what needs to be improved, made more effective and beneficial for the Russian people.
Gennady Zyuganov: There are good ideas for amendments. We will introduce them if you support us. It will be good for everyone, and the electoral system will return to normal. We need to build a good integral system with contest and control, where everyone will do something useful and improve the country, rather than waste time in litigation.
Vladimir Putin: Let's talk about it.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Zyuganov Gennady
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 17, 2019, 20:30
Text versionEvents
Keren Hayesod Foundation conference
Vladimir Putin spoke at the annual conference of Keren Hayesod International Jewish Charitable Foundation.
September 17, 2019
15:00
Moscow
1 of 3
Vladimir Putin spoke at the annual conference of Keren Hayesod International Jewish Charitable Foundation.
Keren Hayesod is an Israeli charitable foundation financing programmes to support various projects in educational, cultural and spiritual and charitable spheres.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, ladies and gentlemen,
I am truly delighted to welcome you all to the international conference of the Keren Hayesod Foundation in Moscow. I am aware that this is not your first day here. I hope you like it. As is well known, your foundation is the oldest. For almost 100 years now, this one of the most influential Jewish organisations has been raising funds to build the Jewish state, to finance programmes to help the Jewish diaspora all around the world, and to support useful international projects in the field of public diplomacy, education, science and culture. I hope you had the chance to see what we are doing here in Russia and Moscow in all these spheres. I was told that you have already been to the Museum of Tolerance and toured our other sites.
The foundation’s leadership includes prominent representatives of the Jewish people, including business people, politicians and religious figures. As I was told, Keren Hayesod regularly hosts conferences in major international capitals. It is gratifying to know that you have decided to get together in the capital of Russia, Moscow. It is important that your foundation does a lot to enhance contacts between the peoples of Russia and Israel, and helps expand cooperation between our countries in politics, economy, cultural and other spheres. Of course such activities are more than welcome.
Importantly, we in Russia pay great attention to developing multifaceted mutually beneficial relations with the state of Israel and we strive to build them in a partner-like and constructive spirit. Without any exaggeration, I can say with pride that probably there has never been such a high level of relations between Russia and Israel, if, of course, we don’t go back to the very first months or maybe the first couple of years of the state of Israel.
Russian-Israeli relations are marked by a substantive political dialogue. I regularly meet with the Prime Minister, Mr Netanyahu; we frequently exchange opinions and consult with each other by telephone, routinely discuss the current and most pressing issues on the global and regional bilateral cooperation agendas.
As you may have noticed, the other day I had the pleasure of receiving Mr Netanyahu in Sochi, in southern Russia. By the way, during our conversation, he told me about his family’s contacts with your organisation. He said that Keren Hayesod is indeed an organisation that enjoys great prestige in the world and that addresses very important, useful and necessary issues.
The Prime Minister also warmly recalled how his grandfather, a rabbi, often spoke at Keren Hayesod meetings. He was an excellent speaker, the Prime Minister said, and his eloquence was even likened to the famous Jewish poet Hayim Bialik. At home, the Netanyahu family still keeps a certificate from the foundation awarded to the Prime Minister’s grandfather for his contribution to your organisation.
Back to Russian-Israeli affairs, I would like to emphasise how important it is to strengthen our bilateral trade and economic ties.
In 2018, trade between Russia and Israel increased by 9 percent. In absolute numbers it is still very modest of course, somewhere around 3 billion. But we are sure that in the near future, we will be able to make progress.
Further increasing the import and export of goods will undoubtedly be facilitated by the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the EAEU, an economic cooperation organisation of the former Soviet states. We are now approaching the final stage – the signing of a free trade document between this organisation (EAEU) and Israel.
Bilateral cooperation in agriculture is also of great significance. Today, work is being done to launch a green corridor to simplify the supply of Israeli agricultural products to the Russian market. A network of dairy clusters using advanced technology is being created in Russia with Israel’s help.
We also see good prospects for developing Russian-Israeli cooperation in science and innovation. Russia is expanding the production of medicines with Israeli licenses. A multifunctional hospital is being planned with the use of Israeli technologies. We also have a cutting-edge technology centre here in Moscow; it’s called Skolkovo.
Russia and Israel support traditionally close cultural contacts. Every year hundreds of thousands of Russians visit Israel and see its cultural and religious landmarks.
Russians and Israelis have ties of family and friendship. This is a true common family; I can say this without exaggeration. Almost 2 million Russian speakers live in Israel. We consider Israel a Russian-speaking country.
Our nations are united by common and often tragic pages in history. In this context, I would like to say that President Rivlin invited me to Israel next January to take part in the events to mark the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz concentration camp and the Day of Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust. Of course, I will accept this invitation. I said this recently at our meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu in Sochi. I hope that during this visit, the Israeli leaders and I will also unveil a memorial to the victims of the Siege of Leningrad in Jerusalem, being constructed at the initiative of Israeli veterans organisations.
Well, you know, I must say that when we face negative phenomena, with attempts to revise the results of World War II, to distort history, I must note with pleasure, on one hand, and with concern, on the other hand, that almost the only organisations that publicly opposed all these attempts were Jewish organisations in Europe, including in the Baltic countries. Of course, I always think about this, and I think about it with gratitude, but it is a pity that only they do this. Those people were not afraid to go out and protest, to put on concentration camp prison clothes as a reminder of those events, and take an active open position. Thank you very much for that.
I cannot help but mention with gratitude that your foundation supported the construction of the Victory monument in Netanya, which we unveiled in 2012 with President Shimon Peres. This monument is a tribute to the Red Army soldiers who saved the lives of millions of Jews and liberated Europe from fascism.
We appreciate that the Keren Hayesod foundation does a lot to preserve the historical truth about World War II. It is important to pass on to the next generations the truth about the terrible tragedy of the Holocaust, about the massive losses that our peoples suffered, as well as about the crimes committed by the Nazis against humanity. This is absolutely necessary in order to prevent the growth of anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and religious and racial intolerance in the modern world. The positions of Russia and Israel, the peoples of our countries coincide. We consider any attempt to revise the outcome of the war, to distort the truth and justify fascism and its lapdogs, completely unacceptable.
The more time passes since World War II, the higher responsibility we have, both state and personal, so that the bitter lessons, the actions and the sacrifices are never forgotten. Soon, in May of next year, we will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the great victory together, and of course, we expect the leadership of Israel to accept the invitation and come to the Victory Parade on Red Square and other special events.
Friends, in conclusion I would like to express my gratitude to Keren Hayesod, the participants in today’s forum, for your practical contribution to cooperation between Russia and Israel. May you have a good time in Moscow, in Russia, and good luck.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
September 12, 2019
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 17, 2019, 15:00
Text version