Events
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sooronbay Jeenbekov at the Donguz training ground in the Orenburg Region.
September 20, 2019
12:30
Donguz training ground, Orenburg Region
1 of 3
With President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov.
The President of Russia noted, in particular, that it was important that Kyrgyz military personnel took part in the Centre 2019 military exercises.
Vladimir Putin pointed out that the Centre 2019 strategic command-and-staff exercises were a major stage in preparing the armed forces for any emergencies, including those that could arise in the fight against terrorism.
The Russian President also mentioned the successful trade and economic cooperation between Russia and Kyrgyzstan.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, thank you for coming.
We have met at different venues and for a variety of reasons. But today we have met for an unusual reason, for joint military exercises.
We maintain cooperation in all spheres. But, of course, we pay special attention to our economic cooperation, which is developing successfully. Last year it increased by 17 percent, and it has continued to grow this year as well.
Our military-technical and purely military cooperation is proceeding apace. It is very important that Kyrgyz units are taking part in these large-scale military exercises.
The exercises involve 128,000 service personnel and 600 aircraft. It really is a very important stage in the training of our armed forces for any emergency, including those that can arise in the fight against terrorism.
As CSTO member states, which is very important for us, we continue our activities within this organisation. But our armed forces can also hone their skills during large-scale exercises like these.
I am delighted to see you. Welcome.
President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov: Mr President, I am happy to meet with you.
We are glad that our meetings have become regular. This is all thanks to you, because you always find the time for our meetings despite your busy schedule.
I congratulate you on the successful completion of the military exercises. As I watched them today, I felt glad, proud and inspired by our armed forces. It is a memorable impression.
I would like to point out that our military departments have always cooperated actively at the bilateral level. I have always said, and I can say it once again, that Kyrgyzstan is the most reliable friend, ally and partner for Russia.
We highly appreciate and value our relations. We always do our best to implement our agreements with Russia, and we never stop working on this.
Thank you for your invitation.
<…>
See also
Centre 2019 strategic command-and-staff exercises
September 20, 2019
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Foreign policy
Great Patriotic War
Persons
Jeenbekov Sooronbay
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 20, 2019, 12:30
Text version