Events
Meeting with Acting Lipetsk Region Administration Head Igor Artamonov
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Acting Head of Lipetsk Region Administration Igor Artamonov to discuss the situation in the region.
July 1, 2019
14:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
Meeting with Acting Lipetsk Region Administration Head Igor Artamonov.
Igor Artamonov
discussed regional achievements during his nine-month tenure.
The administration head’s team has been renewed, and a new feedback system has been established for communicating with the local population. The urban environment continues to improve, and new parks and playgrounds are being created in Lipetsk, Yelets and some small communities.
The authorities have raised by 10 percent the wages of 43,000 public sector workers. Additionally, three physical fitness and health improvement facilities, schools, nurseries, kindergartens and rural cultural centres are being created. The bus fleet is being upgraded in large cities, including Lipetsk and Yelets, as well as for inter-city and inter-municipal traffic.
This year, Mr Artamonov added, they are implementing 21 investment projects. The region’s agro-industrial sector has created 2,400 jobs, and the region also boasts third place in terms of vegetable harvests and sugar output, as well as an impressive export potential.
Environmental protection is an important matter. A memorandum has been signed with the Novolipetsk Iron and Steel Works, under which the latter will spend nearly 35 billion rubles on a new “green” power industry, and it will also convert byproduct converter gas into electricity. Toxic emissions will be reduced by 3,000 tonnes.
Mr Putin and Mr Artamonov also discussed the allocation of 2,000 plots of land for families with many children for building housing and the required infrastructure.
Geography
Lipetsk Region
Topics
Budget
Economy and finance
Housing
Industry
2 more
Persons
Artamonov Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 1, 2019, 14:05
Text version