Events
Meeting with FNPR Head Mikhail Shmakov
Vladimir Putin met with Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Russia (FNPR) Mikhail Shmakov. They discussed, among other things, the procedure for adjusting incentive payments and compensation for pensioners.
February 21, 2019
16:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
With Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Russia (FNPR) Mikhail Shmakov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Shmakov, if you noticed, yesterday some of the topics we discussed in the past were reflected in the Address to some extent.
Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Russia (FNPR) Mikhail Shmakov
: Not only did I notice this, but I noticed it with great optimism because many decisions were really long overdue.
However, the main thing is, as you noted, that only consistent and steady economic development would give us more opportunity to resolve these social issues more effectively.
I noted, in particular, that pensioners’ extra benefits should be above the basic pension level. These payments should not just create a subsistence level for pensioners but should be above this level.
Vladimir Putin: Otherwise, it is not a new solution.
Mikhail Shmakov: Absolutely. This is the first point. Secondly, as you emphasised, this does not meet the needs of the pensioners and those that will see the latest decisions. When they apply them to their own incomes it appears that they will not gain anything, and in some cases they would even lose.
Vladimir Putin: It looks like manipulation…
Mikhail Shmakov: Absolutely so.
I have one more issue to discuss, that this approach is applied to those who are still working as well. At the end of 2017, the Constitutional Court handed down a decision that all compensation and incentives should be over and above the minimum wage.
Nevertheless, we have not yet finished disputing this with the Government. The Government still insists that the amount can be less than the minimum wage and hence it is only possible to reach the minimum wage with these benefits.
This is completely at odds with the Constitutional Court ruling, with common sense and the approach that is now being adopted to pensioners.
Therefore, we would like to address this again with you to discuss the problem so steps can be taken to resolve it.
Vladimir Putin: All right, we will discuss it now because the question is certainly raised correctly. Meanwhile, I have to point out that the Constitutional Court ruling you mentioned applies only to those who work in the Far North.
Mikhail Shmakov: Not quite…
Vladimir Putin: This is what is written in the ruling. It dealt with benefits for those who work in the north. But this does not mean that we should not think about this problem as a whole. Let us review it and we will issue new instructions to the Government.
Mikhail Shmakov: Of course, it should be analysed attentively again, because it is not quite right to say that the amount can be below the minimum wage.
<…>
See also
Presidential Address to Federal Assembly
February 20, 2019
Topics
Labour market
Persons
Shmakov Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2019, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Novgorod Region Governor Andrei Nikitin
Vladimir Putin met with Novgorod Region Governor Andrei Nikitin to discuss the socioeconomic situation in the region.
February 21, 2019
17:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Novgorod Region Governor Andrei Nikitin.
According to Mr Nikitin
, the region is strongly involved in implementing national projects. Schools are being built, five kindergartens will be completed this year and seven more will be built before 2021. Water facilities are being upgraded and roads are being repaired with over 1,000 kilometres brought up to code over the past two years.
Private investment is on the rise. About 20 enterprises are under construction or are being overhauled. About 30 percent of production output is exported, and plans are in place to expand exports.
With regard to the social sphere, according to the governor, a geriatric centre has been built and the Teacher of Russia programme is underway in conjunction with Sberbank. Healthcare is plagued by a lack of primary care, that is, rural healthcare clinics. The first mobile outpatient clinic opened last year.
Rural healthcare clinics, both permanent and mobile, as well as mobile mammography and X-ray units will become available in Novgorod Region as part of the Healthcare national programme. Endovascular centres will be created as well.
According to the governor, radical improvements in the quality of healthcare remain the biggest challenge for the regional authorities.
See also
Presidential Address to Federal Assembly
February 20, 2019
Geography
Novgorod Region
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Social services
Persons
Nikitin Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2019, 17:10
Text version