Events
Meeting with President of Finland Sauli Niinistö
Vladimir Putin had a conversation with President of Finland Sauli Niinistö on the sidelines of the 5th International Arctic Forum The Arctic: Territory of Dialogue.
April 9, 2019
13:20
St Petersburg
1 of 4
Meeting with President of Finland Sauli Niinistö.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
We are very happy to see you in St Petersburg, this time during work on Arctic matters.
Finland now heads the Arctic Council and has accomplished a great deal in the past 18–24 months.
I would also like to note that our bilateral relations continue to develop steadily. We maintain contacts at the level of presidential executive offices, governments and parliaments. This has an impact on trade, which continues to grow.
We are always happy to have an opportunity to meet with you, talk and discuss all these matters.
President of Finland Sauli Niinistö
(retranslated): Thank you very much.
I am very happy to have this opportunity to take part in forum The Arctic: Territory of Dialogue for the third time. We had a very interesting conversation in Salekhard and Arkhangelsk. I believe that we will have the same today.
Thank you for your words regarding Finland’s presidency of the Arctic Council. I believe we have managed to make the Arctic region more prominent on the world map over these years. This is what we have worked for. I believe that the Arctic region is interesting for the entire world, and that dialogue conducted along these lines at the Arctic Council can serve as a model or example for other parts of the world. To my mind, Arctic Council discussions have always been very good.
Speaking of our bilateral relations, relations between our countries, they are neighbourly and positive.
Yesterday, I visited our Consulate General here in St Petersburg. This consulate issues the largest number of visas to Russian citizens of all our consulates. They also confirmed that, as compared to other Russian cities, St Petersburg receives the largest number of Finnish tourists. When I heard this, I recalled a statement you made several years ago when I said that many Russian tourists come to Helsinki and Finland. You expressed hope that they behaved well. I can probably make the same statement now: I hope that Finnish tourists also behave well.
Thank you for this opportunity.
Vladimir Putin: Everything is fine, the tourists behave normally, and they do not forget to eat something with their drinks, so everything is all right with them.
Sauli Niinistö (retranslated): This is as it should be.
<…>
Geography
Finland
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Niinistö Sauli
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 9, 2019, 13:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Norway Erna Solberg
Vladimir Putin met with Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway Erna Solberg on the sidelines of the 5th International Arctic Forum The Arctic: Territory of Dialogue.
April 9, 2019
17:50
St Petersburg
4 of 5
Meeting with Prime Minister of Norway Erna Solberg. Photo: Mikhail Metzel, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Madam Prime Minister, colleagues,
Allow me to greet you once again, now in this format. First, I would like to thank you for accepting our invitation and coming to St Petersburg.
Today, we covered extensively the opportunities for cooperation and the threats associated with working in the Arctic. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the positive experiences of our cooperation, the most important of which include agreements on sections of the sea, on cooperation, as well as on activities in the Barents Sea and a portion of the Arctic Ocean. This is good for bilateral relations and for cooperation in the Arctic in general.
Next year marks the 115th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. As far as I know, this year also marks the 75th anniversary of the liberation of northern Norway from the Nazis, and, to my knowledge, Norway will celebrate this date at a high level. We took note of this and appreciate it very much.
Trade is also growing, it was up by almost 14 percent last year.
We are very pleased to see you. Welcome.
Prime Minister of Norway Erna Solberg (retranslated): Thank you, President Putin.
We are pleased to take part in this international Arctic conference, the subject of which is closely related to Norway, namely, ocean conditions. We strongly appreciate the invitation to St Petersburg and the warm welcome that we, the Norwegian delegation, have received.
Indeed, primarily, our two countries cooperate in the north. We maintain neighbourly relations, and we face many common challenges. I hope we will be able to expand this theme-specific cooperation in the future.
Indeed, northern Norway is grateful to Russia for liberating East-Finnmark from the Nazi invaders. We will celebrate the 75th anniversary of the liberation in the autumn. We are pleased that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov will come for this anniversary. Norway recognises the sacrifices the Soviet people made during liberation from the invaders. We are grateful to Russia for that.
* * *
Question from a media member: May I ask one question from Norway?
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Question: Russia is accusing a Norwegian of spying. What needs to be done to resolve this?
Vladimir Putin: Take the time to see what the court has to say about it. As in any country, our courts establish the punishment, the liability, whether a person is guilty or not. It all depends on the court ruling. Once we have it, we will see what we can do about it.
Question: Are you willing to pardon him?
Vladimir Putin: You can only pardon someone who has been convicted. He has not been convicted yet.
<…>
See also
Plenary session of the International Arctic Forum
April 9, 2019
Geography
Norway
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 9, 2019, 17:50
Text version    Events Plenary session of the International Arctic Forum   Vladimir Putin attended
the plenary session of 5th International Arctic Forum The Arctic: Territory of Dialogue.    April 9, 2019  16:50  St Petersburg                   The theme of the sessionis
The Arctic: An Ocean of Opportunity. President of the Republic of Finland Sauli
Niinistö, President of the Republic of Iceland Guðni Thorlacius Jóhannesson, Prime
Minister of the Kingdom of Norway Erna Solberg and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Sweden Stefan Löfven are taking part in the discussion.The discussion is focused on the comprehensive development of Arctic territories, including the rational use of natural resources, environmental security, transport, protection of northern
indigenous peoples’ interests and other aspects of sustainable growth in the Arctic region.* * *Speech and answers to questions at the plenary session of 5th International Arctic ForumPresident of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Niinistö, Mr Jóhannesson, Ms Solberg,
Mr Löfven, ladies and gentlemen, friends,I am happy to welcome you to St
Petersburg, the northern capital of Russia whose history is closely connected
with legendary Arctic expeditions, industrial exploration of this unique region
and preservation of its nature and unique culture.This is the fifth time that International
Arctic Forum The Arctic: Territory of Dialogue becomes a platform for an open discussion of the Arctic agenda. We
thank our foreign guests and representatives of the Arctic Council countries
for their readiness to team up and their understanding of our shared
responsibility for the future of the Arctic and its stable and sustainable
development.In 2021, Russia will assume presidency of the Arctic Council. We invite
all participants of the Council and other states to cooperate in the Arctic.
The priorities of our presidency are vital for the Arctic development: promotion
of sustainable technologies in all areas, including industry, transport and energy.Today we are carrying out our projects in the Arctic, including global
ones, based on the latest environmental standards. It is enough to mention the Yamal LNG project and the development of the Bovanenkovskoye and Kharasaveyskoye gas fields. Today, the Arctic accounts for over 10 percent of all investment in the Russian
Federation. I am convinced that the importance of the Arctic factor in the Russian economy will only grow further. This year we are going to draft and adopt a new strategy for the development of the Russian Arctic up to 2035. It is to combine measures stipulated
in our national projects and state programmes, the investment plans of infrastructure companies and programmes for developing Arctic regions and cities.All Arctic regions should be brought to the level of at least the national average in key socioeconomic indicators and living standards. I would
like to emphasise that this task should not only be clearly defined in the new
strategy of Arctic development but should also serve as a guide for the work of all federal departments and regional authorities of Russia. It is absolutely
necessary to take into account the specific nature of the problems facing the indigenous minorities of the North. Special attention should be paid to the development of transport and other support infrastructure. We are well aware that this is a necessary
foundation for future investment and business initiatives. The construction of theNorthern
Latitudinal Railway is
a key infrastructure project. This railway will make it possible to start
effective development of the natural riches of the Polar Urals and Yamal, and in the long-term, the north of Krasnoyarsk Territory of the Russian Federation.
And we will certainly continue developing the global transport corridor that
includes the Northern Sea Route and which will be functioning without fail year
round.Our goal to significantly boost the freight traffic and bring it up to 80 million tonnes by 2025 on the Northern Sea Route alone was outlined in the 2018 Address to the Federal Assembly. Just 10 to 15 years ago, this figure
looked absolutely out of reach, whereas today it is a realistic, carefully
calculated and concrete goal. As of last year, the volume of traffic on the Northern Sea Route already reached 20 million tonnes. This is three times – I reiterate – three times more than the Soviet record set in 1987, when the Soviet Union transported 6.5 million tonnes using this route. Now, it is 20
million tonnes.In order for this global transport corridor to operate at full capacity,
we will develop the communication and coastal infrastructure, including port facilities,
navigation, and meteorological aids, and ensure safe commercial navigation.We encourage our foreign partners to join us in our efforts to create
hub ports at the end points of the route. I mean the Murmansk transport hub and port infrastructure in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. In addition, we plan to upgrade
the Arctic coast harbours, including the river-sea traffic capabilities.We will continue to update our icebreaker fleet and to increase the production of ice-class vessels. Three new nuclear-powered icebreakers, namely,
the Arktika, the Sibir and the Ural, are being built here in St Petersburg,
where we are now. By 2035, Russia's Arctic fleet will operate at least 13 heavy-duty
linear icebreakers, including nine nuclear icebreakers.To reiterate, our goal is to make the Northern Sea Route safe and lucrative
for shippers, and appealing both in terms of the quality of services and price.
In particular, the icebreaker escort fee must be competitive and reasonable.
The state invests in this operation in order to minimise the tariff burden on carriers and other businesses.Friends, we intend to use all of our
investment support tools, including those that we have used successfully under
programmes for the development of Russia’s Far Eastern regions, to launch new
projects. These will include lower profit tax rates, reduced severance tax
coefficients for mineral extraction, a notifying procedure for VAT refunds and a simplified procedure for providing land plots and invariable terms for implementing investment projects. At the same time, with due
consideration for the Arctic’s peculiarities, investors should and will receive
more advanced and more stable preferences here.I would now like to address our
colleagues. The Government of Russia, as well as experts and the business
community, have been instructed to draft a federal law on a special system of preferences for the Arctic zone’s investors. And I am asking you to do this quickly
so Russia’s State Duma can pass the law during its fall session. I would like to draw your attention
to one more point. As you may know, the powers of the Ministry for the Development of Russia’s Far East have been expanded; now, the Arctic is also
within its authority and is part of its responsibility. In this connection, it
is logical to expand the work of Far Eastern development institutions to the Arctic as well. If necessary, we will expand the capitalisation of the Far East
Development Fund for selective financing of Arctic projects.Furthermore, we need a powerful research,
HR and technological foundation for the region’s comprehensive development and for accomplishing unique and unconventional tasks in the high latitudes. We
have begun establishing science and education centres in various Russian
regions; they integrate the capabilities of universities, research institutes,
the business community and the real economy. One of our Arctic regions will
certainly receive such a centre that will ensure the development of fundamental
research and will help address the applied and practical tasks of developing
the Arctic.We believe
that the future belongs to active academic and university exchanges,
international research teams and alliances of high-tech companies. We invite
all our colleagues to take part in joint projects in shipbuilding, navigation
safety, environmental protection, minerals production and bioresources
harvesting.The Arctic
offers us immense challenges. And we can only respond effectively if we do it
together. One such challenge, as I have told you, is to maintain balance
between economic development and preservation of the Arctic environment,
conservation of its unique and fragile ecosystems, and, of course, clean-up of the environmental damage accumulated through the economic activity in the past
decades, which was extensive from time to time. We have been conducting a major
clean-up of Arctic areas for a number of years. Starting in 2012, we
have removed and utilised over 80,000 metric tonnes of waste.In the coming years we will liquidate six major environmental damage sites in Arkhangelsk and Murmansk regions, in the Nenets Autonomous Area, Karelia and Yakutia as part of the Clean Country federal project. We are also to clean up over
200 square kilometres in the Kola Bay area.We will
also develop a system of specially protected natural territories and reserves. Above
all, I mean the Russian Arctic national park. It is important to take
additional measures to develop civilised ecotourism and build the required
infrastructure there.To conclude, I would like to thank all the participants and guests of our forum. I am certain that our constructive dialogue will help strengthen neighbourly
relations and trust in the Arctic region, which means the peaceful and sustainable development of the Arctic.Thank you.<…>John Fraher: So now I am
delighted to open up the panel discussion, where we will touch on many of the issues that we’ve talked about in the opening speeches. I would like to start
with energy in the Arctic. And President Putin, you talked a lot about Russia
expanding its energy infrastructure in the Arctic. Indeed, exploiting the Arctic reserves has been one of your grandest ambitions as president. And yet
when you look at the global energy market and trends in the global energy
market, we see that the world is moving towards renewable energy. The world is
awash with US shale, and, as Rosneft has discovered, sanctions are making it
much harder for Russia to do big offshore projects. I think it has been five
years now since Rosneft struck oil in the Arctic.  So my question to you
is, is there a risk that Russia has missed its chance here? That somehow this
Arctic dream that you’ve had will end in disappointment?Vladimir Putin: I would like to ask the moderator to give me two minutes for some
comments on the speeches of my colleagues. Do you mind? Thank you very much.
First of all, we have discrepancies with Sauli
[Niinistö] on data relating to warming in the Arctic. According to our data,
the Arctic is warming four times faster than the rest of the world, and Russia
is warming 2.5 times faster than the rest of the world. These may be different
calculations, but both of these are really disturbing trends.As for soot, I know this is a serious question, Sauli and I also discussed it. We also have different
calculations concerning these emissions in different countries, including in Russia, the differences are dozens of times. But I gave him an example, told
him that in the ancient sediments of ice, we can observe large inclusions of soot. It was in the Middle Ages, perhaps even earlier, when there were no
industrial emissions. The fact is that a volcano may produce more emissions
than humanity, whose emissions are associated with road transport.
Nevertheless, this question is very important, and our experts are also working
on it.But what is extremely important, in my opinion, and here I fully agree with Sauli, is that if ships switch to more
environmentally friendly types of fuel, and I mean primarily gas fuel,
especially ships that navigate in the northern seas, in the Arctic zone, this
is of course extremely important. It is absolutely obvious. And it would be
necessary to encourage shipbuilding companies and carriers to use such types of transport and such fuel. Now
let us move on to your question: “Does Russia, as the region’s largest economy,
do enough to ensure environmental security in the Arctic?” Sorry, but I must
also correct you. Russia is not the largest economy in the Arctic region.
According to the IMF, China ranks first in terms of purchasing power parity and economy. It significantly overtook the United States, 25 trillion already, if I am not mistaken.John Fraher: But Mr President, is China an Arctic country? By your definition.Vladimir Putin: I was patient, while you were
saying all this, you too please bear with me. The United States of America ranks second. And the United States of America, on a par with Canada, is a country in the Arctic zone. But unlike the United States,
we signed and executed the Tokyo Agreement, and signed the Paris Agreement and are going to implement it. Moreover, Russia undertook to reduce emissions by 25–30 percent from the level of 1990. This is a large load. And as the President of Finland said, we are now planning the ratification; of course, we
will do this after a comprehensive analysis of the consequences of the implementation of these decisions, but nevertheless we are moving in this
direction.Although I have already mentioned
this, the causes of the warming are still unknown. We are not sure whether it
is related to emissions or some other more global causes. This is the question.
However, we cannot go wrong by reducing anthropogenic emissions, and Russia has
undertaken such commitments. However, Russia is not the world’s largest
economy. We rank sixth in terms of the volume of our economy and purchasing
power parity. We come sixth after China, the United States, India, Japan and Germany. We will do our best to move up, of course.Now, regarding “from here we will face a Swede, here the city will be
laid, in spite of the arrogant neighbour” (A quote from Alexander Pushkin’s poem The Bronze Horseman, which the Prime Minister of Sweden Stefan Lofven quoted during his forum speech), I would
like to mention another poem, Poltava. It has the following lines about the Battle of Poltava “Hurrah! The Swedes are broken…“ These lines come to mind when we watch the game between the Russian national football team and Tre
Kronor. Unfortunately for our fans, we are unable to cite these lines too often
now, because the brilliant Swedish hockey team is playing so well and thrills not
only its own fans but ours as well and by the way everyone is united: sports
unites our countries in a cultural sense. It would be nice, Mr Prime Minister,
if a club of yours participated in the Continental Hockey League games. However,
this is beside the point of our meeting today.Now, regarding your
question about whether Russia will miss something, or not, in terms of developing these resources. Of course, not. First, the resources are truly
enormous; they are of a global scale. According to preliminary estimates, we
have about 13 billion tonnes of oil and 95 trillion cubic metres of natural gas.
They represent colossal planetary reserves. We have already begun to develop
them. Mr Mikhelson who is sitting across from me is in charge of the Yamal LNG
project. This is an international project.You mentioned restrictions. Yes,
they do exist and they are harmful, of course, as well as sanctions, and everything else, but they cannot stop the process of Arctic development. To reiterate, no matter how the sanction tools work, the first shipment from Yamal
LNG went to the United States. Funny, but true. And, I believe, trade continues
uninterrupted as well. Because whenever our US partners and friends can benefit
from something, they make whatever it is happen. If they find it is not
lucrative, then they tend to tighten the screws. But only if they do not find
it lucrative for themselves. They have not been paying much attention to the interests of other countries lately. Well, so, we will implement other
projects, and we will expand this one as well.How fast the humankind is moving
towards replacing hydrocarbons with alternative sources is a different
question. According to expert data, global energy consumption will increase in the coming decades, and the ratio between hydrocarbons and renewable sources,
such as nuclear power and hydropower, will remain about the same.Today (whether it is good or bad,
but this is the case) this relationship between different sources remains
unchanged. The total volume is up. Let us not forget that Russia is a vast
country with hydropower capabilities, and we are expanding and will continue to expand nuclear energy. Nuclear power accounts for only 16 percent of energy generation.
In France, it is already more than 90 percent, and we have only 16. We have to get to at least 25. Our neighbours, Finland, are going to build as well. And so
on. So, we have not missed anything.Now, with regard to whether the pressure
of sanctions is getting in our way or not. Partly it is, but not in a critical
way. To a certain extent, this even encourages us to actively develop our own
technology. Last year, we invested 600 billion rubles in import
replacement (that is, to produce ourselves what we used to buy from abroad). (Addressing Maxim Oreshkin) How much was invested in import replacement last year? The Minister of Economic Development does not remember. About a billion rubles. This will
continue, and we will continue to build up these efforts. Frankly, it has a positive effect. Of course, it would be better to do without any restrictions
that distort the market and global trade and lead to a slowdown in the global
economy. But the implementation of Russia’s plans to develop mineral resources
will not get in the way of development, in general.John Fraher: But do you not
worry? Yes, you are right, the Yamal LNG story has been very successful to date, and no one doubts the fact that there are lots of deep oil and gas
reserves in the Arctic, but getting them out of the sea is extremely expensive.
Yes, it’s there, but do you think it is going to be economically viable for Russia to do this given the head… that we have talked about: sanctions, energy
transition, etc.?Vladimir Putin:
I have told you that we do not see the transition. What we see is the man's
efforts to develop alternative energy sources, but so far there is no critical transition
from hydrocarbons to renewable sources – critical from the standpoint of those who
produce oil, gas and coal. This is not even about oil, gas or residual oil.
Currently, thermal power stations are using coal, not even residual oil, oil or gas. And gas, by the way, is the most eco-friendly type of fuel of all the hydrocarbon
sources.Coal is the most common fuel the world is burning today, and this is what we have to think about. And the volume
of this remains the same. Some countries are reducing it, but overall it is not
changing worldwide. This is the issue to consider. Basically, I do not see any threats
here. By the way, here in Russia we are working to develop alternative energy
sources as well; we are making an active effort and will continue to do so. But
I do not see any threat here, there isn’t any. Speaking of high costs, you
mentioned oil production in, say, the United States. But we know how oil is
extracted there – by hydraulic fracturing, the most environmentally hazardous method
of extracting hydrocarbons. In certain US states, where oil is extracted using
this method, people have dark sludge instead of clean tap water – you probably
know this better than me. Efforts are probably made to rectify this, but it is
a difficult task. The profitability of oil extracted using this method is much
higher than extracting oil and gas in Russia in the most remote regions. That
is why we feel confident in this regard.What’s more, if oil falls below $40,
oil production profitability and extraction growth will be questioned. Of course,
technology is advancing, and the cost of such production will drop and fall
below $40 a barrel; maybe it will be at $35–40 – but oil production costs are
lower in Russia anyway, let alone gas; I won’t even cite figures so that I don’t scare anyone. It is much lower than in the United States or Europe, and even in certain oil-producing countries in the Middle East. John Fraher: And one final
question for you on the Arctic energy. Given that it is still quite expensive
to get oil and gas out of the Arctic, and given these problems we have talked
about, are there any tax breaks for Russian companies to make it all
worthwhile? Can we expect more of them?Vladimir Putin: I have already said that we are planning to create, are creating and will keep creating an environment that is beneficial for the companies working in the harsh Arctic conditions. This is not just about underdeveloped
infrastructure, but about the need to invest in technology that would 100
percent ensure the conservation of nature. It is so fragile in the Arctic region;
we all know that, every colleague of mine sitting here knows all about it. That
is the first thing. Second, when organising work like this, we have to think about the interests of the indigenous peoples of the North. Their
interests are an additional burden on the companies, and the state must take on that burden to a large extent as well.<…>John Fraher: President Putin, do you want to get in on that? [John Fraher’s
discussion with Norwegian Prime Minister, President of Iceland, Swedish Prime
Minister and President of Finland].Vladimir Putin: Yes, I do; actually, I am eager to.Once again we return to sanctions,
to Crimea and so forth. If I am not mistaken, Crimea is not part of the Arctic region,
but I would like to say a few words nevertheless. We all came here to discuss issues
related to the Artic region. We would not like to see the Arctic turn into something
akin to Crimea and Crimea turn into a desert as a result of certain measures
not being taken in time (and a crime, as is well known to lawyers, can either be
an act of commission or an act of omission), as a result of our criminal
omission. That is what all of us must think about today. That is what all of us
are discussing today, too. These are not just empty words, by the way; if you
take a look at the sediments discovered in the Arctic, you will find the remains of tropical plants, tropical animals. This means, this happened before,
some time in history. We must understand what is going on with the planet, and act together accordingly.I will make another historical
digression. A lot of time has passed since our reformer Peter the Great and romantic King Charles XII of Sweden fought against each other and divided the territories.
Now there are problems that we are discussing today that can only be resolved through
concerted effort. This is the reason we’re meeting here today. I think our
meeting will be useful. As for the EU and the exchange of sanction strikes, you are certainly aware of things. Bloomberg cannot fail to know this. Based on European Commission estimates, I think in 2015 or 2016 the European Union lost about 50 billion euros, while Russia lost about 25–26
billion euros. It is clear that the EU is losing more than us. The German numbers, in the estimate
of analysts from Germany, missed gains run as much as 56 billion, whereas ours are
three times less. But we are not happy about losing less. No, I am saying that
there are common losses and this means real damage. Now, regarding the very character of the sanctions.First, for any sanction to be legal it
needs to be authorized by the UN Security Council. But this is not happening,
so they are illegal. This is the first point.And now the second point that I consider the most important one. For some reason nobody imposes sanctions for interfering
in the domestic affairs of other countries, for disrupting internal political
life or for shattering entire states. Nobody imposes sanctions against those
who reduce countries to a position where they are compelled to take certain
measures to protect their interests.Let’s just return to the observance
of the basic rules of international law and the UN Charter. Probably, in this
case there will be no need to think about the aftermath of bombing Yugoslavia
or other things linked to such flagrant violations of international law and their consequences.  Let’s simply return to normal political life and realise that the world is interdependent and that we should work together to achieve a common result.John Fraher: Mr President,
you are known everywhere as a realist, as a pragmatist; you might not feel like
sanctions are fair, but a lot of European powers still feel strongly that they
need to stay in place. What is your feeling on how long these sanctions are
going to last? Are they going to last ten more years? Is this Russia’s future
as far as the eye can see?Vladimir Putin: Russia’s future does not depend on sanctions. Russia’s future only
depends on how effectively we will be able to transform our political system,
how democratic it will be, how well it will bring to the surface the healthiest
forces in society and the creative energy of our citizens. On how effectively
we will be able to harness it, how well we will be able to utilise the internal
resources of the Russian economy.I said that we invested over 600
billion last year (637, I think) in import replacement. And it has been effective.
We have great science and education. We must keep it all in proper shape and move forward. And I am confident that we can do so, including when implementing
the national projects.Sanctions (if we want them to work) are
a tool which must be in the sole possession of the United Nations Security
Council. All other matters should be resolved through dialogue rather than
imposing one’s own agenda on other countries. That is all there is to it. Today, sanctions are being used not
as a tool of geopolitical struggle but simply as an element of competition.
Take Nord Stream 2, for example. Our US friends are fighting it. But it is
definitely profitable for our European partners. “No, do not build it!” It is
hard to work with the European Union as there are many countries there and nearly everything is decided by consensus.We have already worked with Turkey
to build TurkStream along the Black Sea bed. TurkStream will launch later this
year. Yet we still cannot come to terms with the Europeans. Our US partners opposed,
in exactly the same way, the “pipes for gas” project in the 1960s that we
pursued with the Federal Republic of Germany. It was exactly the same.It was the same with Nord Stream 1.
What would global energy look like now if there were no Nord Stream 1? I can
give you the answer. Prices would be even higher than they are now, simple as that. Do you want to buy mineral resources at higher prices? No.I do not know what else should be done
to pressure the European countries. Only to make up the difference between our
natural gas and US LNG from their national budgets because it is impossible
under market conditions to make customers buy 30 percent more expensive goods.
It is impossible, they will just refuse to buy. Households will not simply pay
up. So what must be done to break even?
To cover the difference with funds from the budget. But this is the height of cynicism. I think if things keep going like this, it will happen. But it is not
our choice, it is our European partners’ choice.How about demands to increase
defence spending? What do you think this is connected with? Do you think it is
connected with the overall deterioration of the international situation? No, it
is just a pretext. The main motive is to fill up the US military-industrial
complex with additional European money. This is where the main answers lie. And for this not to happen, let us go back to abiding by the elementary norms of international law. We have spoken about that
many times.<…>John Fraher: President
Putin, with apologies to the rest of the panel, there are a few international
topics that I’d just like to focus on for a moment. I know that the last time
that we met in Moscow, a year and a half ago, you scolded me for monopolising
too much of your time at the expense of your guests, but I promise I will get
back to the Arctic, I will not monopolise you too much. But the first thing I would like to talk to you about is actually relevant to the conversation we’ve
had here. You talked earlier about energy prices, and Russia is keeping the world guessing in terms of what it is going to do about production cuts. We
have an OPEC meeting coming up in June. Can I first ask you, do you agree with
your Energy Minister that oil prices, as they stand now, are broadly acceptable
for Russia?Vladimir Putin: I think the Russian Ministry of Energy should agree with my opinion. I would prioritise our work appropriately.
And I must tell you that common practice in the Russian Government is to always
keep in touch, always discuss these issues collectively, keeping in mind the interests of the Russian economy and its various sectors.We do not advocate the uncontrolled growth of prices, because even though we aim to diversify the Russian economy, even now,
it is not entirely dependent on oil and gas, but also on industrial production.
But domestic industrial production is also affected by exorbitant price
increases.Therefore, we are balanced on the development
of the global energy market. We are quite satisfied with today's prices, and we
see production volumes in the United States growing. Yes, the United States
consumes significantly more than we do. We produce 11.5 million barrels per
day, but in the US, output is even higher now.This situation suits us as it is today, but we
closely watch the market of course, together with our partners, primarily the major
oil producers like Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states. We agreed that if cooperation
is required, we will meet and discuss it in the second half of the year.In any case, we are ready to cooperate further
with OPEC to work out common solutions. I would be that careful with wording. We will be ready to continue
cooperating. As to whether that cooperation implies another decrease, or keeping production flat as it is now, I cannot say yet.We have plans for our companies to develop new
deposits, and we also approach this carefully. We understand that production
should not stop, investment should flow into the industry, otherwise it can
also create problems for us and for the global energy industry. So, we will find
balanced solutions. But we will continue to cooperate with OPEC.And I would still like to return to your previous question about these tensions. In reality, I do not see any
particular military tensions here in the Arctic. They do not exist. The only
thing is that NATO held the region’s largest exercises. This is true. We do not
conduct such exercises in the region. We held large-scale exercises but very
far from NATO’s zone of responsibility. It was in the East. This is the first
point. Second, I would like everyone to know that we invite foreign observers to all of our exercises without exception.
Always. We have certain agreements. We have always had them.Now about aircraft. Our combat
aircraft do not fly over Norwegian territory. They have not and, I hope, will
not fly there. Yes, they fly in the neutral air space. The aircraft of the country near which our aircraft routes pass, accompany them. Madame Prime
Minister is right. We also accompany NATO aircraft if they fly near our borders
or ships. So I do not see any major threats here. These activities should
simply be kept under control.As a representative of a neutral
country, the President of Finland suggested some time ago that war planes
should fly with switched on transponders, that is, devices that identify
aircraft. We agreed and instantly submitted this proposal in the framework of our relations with NATO. NATO’s reply was negative. Go and ask them why they do
not agree.I think this is an absolutely sound proposal.
Technically, this is not a simple solution but I gave relevant instructions to the General Staff and the Defence Ministry and they are ready to implement them.
Let NATO do the same. In this case it will be clear what aircraft, military aircraft,
is flying and where it is located at any given moment. We are an order of magnitude less active in the Baltic and the Arctic than NATO. It is necessary
to know this.John Fraher: Can I just
bring you back one last time to OPEC and then we can move on. It sounds like
you still stay much in wait-and-see mode when it comes to production cuts, but
do you think that the crises that we are seeing in Venezuela, in Iran and now
in Libya mean that cuts are no longer needed to support prices? Did they make
it less likely that we will need cuts to support prices?Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course, we are thinking
about it. Indeed, the crisis in Venezuela and Iran, but actually, there is no
crisis in Iran – only the sanctions that restrict the country’s access to world
markets. In some African countries, including Libya, yes, we see all this and take it into account. And this is what I had in mind when I said that we would
closely monitor the market. We also keep in mind that the global consumption of hydrocarbons, including oil, increases in the summer. We will see. But at this time the world's reserves do not
require any special action. Our companies have plans, as I said, to develop new
deposits, so we must also consider this and assist our companies. We can
provide different kinds of assistance. They can start drilling now, or we can
ensure them a break-even or profitable operation using various state support
tools. We have our own opinions on this. We will closely monitor the market,
and will make decisions based on the situation. But cooperation with OPEC will
continue.John Fraher: So, I will give this question one last attempt. So
the big question is, will Russia agree to extend production cuts to the end of September? Is that more likely or less likely?Vladimir Putin: We haven’t actually reduced it,
just refrained from increasing it. But if the market situation develops in such
a way that reserves increase dramatically, for example, if the United States were
to seize Venezuelan oil and quickly increase availability in world markets,
load their own refineries to capacity, and channel their oil to the world
market. Or these may be some other positive developments,
let's say in Libya, from the political point of view, suppose the country stabilises
overall, and enters world markets. Or suddenly, someone decides it’s time to let
up on Iran, but to try and create conditions for Iran and Israel to agree
somehow, and the situation normalises, and Iran sends additional crude to the markets. Then we would need to consider the changes and make an appropriate
decision. You are trying to squeeze a more specific answer from me – but you
are not getting it. We will cooperate with OPEC and make a decision depending
on the market.John Fraher: I am a journalist;
I have to do my best. So I have one final question for you on international
affairs before we bring it back to the Arctic.Vladimir Putin: I beg the pardon of my colleagues, but I have nothing to do with it.John Fraher: You can blame me, it’s all my fault, but we will get
back to it.Before this
panel, we reached out to users of Bloomberg social media platform. It is called
TicToc and it attracts an audience of younger news consumers around the world.
A lot of the questions that we have from them were about environmental matters
that we have talked about, but unsurprisingly, and I think you know what is
coming here, the question of Russia’s relations with the US also came up. So I wanted to spend just a couple of minutes on that and then we will move on.  At the Helsinki
summit, Trump invited you to Washington. Now that the Mueller report is out of the way, do you think that Trump would be better able to deliver on his promise
of good relations with Russia? And are you expecting an invitation to the White
House this year?Vladimir Putin: You know, we have a good book called The Twelve Chairs and there is a line in it: “Come visit us, my old mother will
be very happy. But he did not leave his address.” The time must be ripe. We said from
the very start that this notorious commission of Mr Mueller will not find anything
because nobody knows this better than us. Russia has not interfered in any
elections in the United States. This is the first point.Second, there was no collusion
between Trump and Russia, which is what Mr Mueller was looking for. I was not
acquainted with Mr Trump. Yes, he came to Moscow but as a businessman and,
frankly speaking, this was not a big event for us. This is sheer nonsense
designed exclusively for domestic consumption and used in the internal politics
of the US. So we knew a mountain was being made
out of a molehill, so to speak, because we knew how it would end beforehand. I was telling you this the whole time. Now it has come to pass, but it did not
make the domestic political situation in the US any easier. Now new excuses are
being sought to attack President Trump.It seems to me (excuse the digression) that this points to something of a crisis in the US political
system itself. Look at what is happening. The groups that are attacking the duly
elected President do not agree with the choice made by the American people.
They are nullifying the result.This amounts to a crisis of the political system. We have never seen anything like this in US history before.
Yes, there may be a fierce campaign but once a nominee wins, everyone accept it.
This was always the case and all people united around the head of state to meet
common national challenges. We are not seeing anything of the kind in the US
now. On the contrary, the rift is deepening.Do you understand what happened?
They put their group or party interests above the national interest. This is
what happened.I am not at all defending President
Trump. Our positions differ on lots of issues. Numerous sanctions have been introduced
against Russia under his administration. Naturally, we do not and will never
agree with this and consider it counterproductive. But if full-scale, equitable
dialogue between the US and Russia is restored, including the discussion of disarmament issues that are of interest both to us and all humankind, we will
only be too happy. We are ready for this.John Fraher: President Trump says he feels vindicated by the Mueller report. President Putin, on a personal level, after everything that has
happened – President Trump calls it a witch hunt – after everything that has
happened, do you feel happy for him on a personal level? On the outcome of the Mueller report?Vladimir Putin:
President Trump knows
best. We know from US
history what a witch hunt is. It is a dark chapter in US history. We would
rather it never repeats.John Fraher: I have one final question on this. At the famous
Helsinki press conference… One more, last one, I promise. You said that you
hoped Trump would win the 2016 election because he promised to make relations
with Russia better. Right now, do you want him to win again in 2020?Vladimir Putin:
You know, I have already said that we disagree on many international issues, on problems related to the resolution of some crises. But we also have some
elements of cooperation. However different the approaches we take to settling
the Syrian crisis, there is still cooperation there, we work together.We have common problems in the Arctic, and we have gathered here, by the way, to solve and discuss them. The United States has many interests of its own in the Arctic zone. We face many problems
related to climate change in general. We know that the US did not sign the Paris Agreement, and the US Administration has its own reasons and logic. I am
not among those who feel the current Administration should be attacked for this,
we just need to engage in dialogue.And in that case I think we will be
able to try to find a common solution. Because it is hard to expect effective
work from the international community
without US participation in the process, or China’s or India’s participation,
for example. The US is a big emitter. It is obvious, and we must acknowledge it.
This is why a solution must be found, the US should be brought on board and invited to engage in dialogue. On the whole, as I see it, Mr Trump does not
refuse. That is number one, and even number two.Third, I feel that many bilateral
matters are currently perceived under the pressure of the domestic political
situation. We hope when the situation gets back to normal, prospects will open for cooperation, including bilateral, on the issues I mentioned. And they include
terrorism, epidemics and the environment. Actually, there are many issues,
including arms control.I think we are all interested in that but we will start working when the conditions in the US are right. It does
not depend on whether we want it or not. What does that even mean, to want it or not? This is not an area where such categories can be applied. We respect the choice of the American people. We are ready to work with their president
whoever it might be.John Fraher: I’ve been told that we are coming to the end of our
time, so I would like to close by asking each of you, perhaps in 90 seconds, or as short as you can, to sum up, I guess to answer this question. As the Arctic
opens up… One moment. President Putin.Vladimir Putin: Excuse me, there is something very
important, as far as the Northern Sea Route is concerned. Say it takes you 33
days to get from Yokohama to Rotterdam via the Indian Ocean and 20 days via the Northern Sea Route, as the distance between these cities via the Northern Sea
Route is slightly over 7,000 kilometres – 7,300 – and is almost 12,000
kilometres via the Indian Ocean. This is the point – it saves you a lot of fuel
and time, and so, of course, it will be very attractive not only to China,
Japan, South Korea and Indonesia but it may even evolve into a very interesting
and promising area of international cooperation that will bring people
together, rather than drive them apart. John Fraher: Understood. So as we wrap up, I would like to ask each of you to tell me, perhaps in 90 seconds, what you see as the biggest opportunity as the Arctic opens up and the biggest risk or the biggest source of worry, as the Arctic opens up.Vladimir Putin: I believe the development of the Arctic is likely to give us the following main advantages.First, as I mentioned earlier, these are global
resources and they should work for the benefit of humankind. It is important
that they are used in the service of humankind, in keeping with certain
international rules and agreements between the countries of the region and other players. This is the most important thing, on a par with the need to make
use of additional transit and communications opportunities.I believe the main threat is, primarily, the threat to the environment. We are worried about polar bears. This is a figure
of speech; we are worried about the fauna in general, as risks related to warming and, probably, to the development of the Arctic and economic activity
in the area will grow. We must take this into consideration. That is why it is
so important that we have gathered today and will continue to meet, including
at the Arctic Council headed by our colleague to my left. All decisions by the Arctic Council are nothing
more than recommendations but these are very important recommendations, which
have great moral and political significance and all players implementing their
national projects cannot fail to take them into account. This work has to be
coordinated. So, cooperation in the Arctic offers a good example – and it is
also an important advantage – of how we can jointly look for solutions to the issues on the global agenda.Thank you very much. I would like to express my gratitude to you and my colleagues who came to St Petersburg today to discuss
these issues.     See also     Meeting with President of Finland Sauli Niinistö April 9, 2019          See also     Greetings to participants and guests of the Arctic: Territory of Dialogue 5th International Arctic Forum April 8, 2019             Geography FinlandIcelandNorwaySweden      Topics  Foreign policy         Persons    Niinistö Sauli                        Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    April 9, 2019, 16:50  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/60250    Text version        NaN /  