Events
Meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov to discuss the implementation of programmes on the defence industry diversification and import substitution. Yury Borisov presented new proposals to the President intended to accelerate the achievement of these goals.
September 26, 2019
13:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
With Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Borisov, we have a comprehensive programme for the diversification of the defence industry. We have met many times in various formats to discuss this subject.
How is this work coming along?
Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov
: Mr President, it is coming along nicely, by and large. In 2018, civilian products accounted for 20.8 percent of the aggregate output in the defence industry.
I know that you expect the national projects to catalyse diversification, and that you have issued instructions towards this end.
I would like to tell you about our additional proposals in this sphere. I believe that they can have a considerable effect. I have already discussed them with Dmitry Medvedev.
Also, I would like to report on the implementation of import substitution programmes, because industrial companies in Ukraine, as well as in the NATO and EU countries, stopped exporting some components and materials to us following the imposition of sanctions in 2014.
We are implementing this [import substitution] programme as per your instruction. I can assure you that our defence contracts have not been hampered by the refusal to supply us with the necessary products.
Moreover, I would like to tell you about the additional proposals, which can be implemented if new sanctions are imposed, so that nobody thinks we are unable to independently address vital issues related to our defence capability.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Go ahead, please.
<…>
See also
Military-Industrial Commission meeting
September 19, 2019
See also
Instructions following meeting on defence industry diversification
December 18, 2018
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Persons
Borisov Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 26, 2019, 13:40
Text version