Events
Ceremony for presenting the Order of Alexander Nevsky to President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
Following talks, Vladimir Putin presented Alexandar Vucic with a Russian Federation state decoration – the Order of Alexander Nevsky.
January 17, 2019
18:50
Belgrade
Vladimir Putin presented Alexandar Vucic with a state decoration of the Russian Federation – the Order of Alexander Nevsky – for his major personal contribution to the advancement of multilateral cooperation with Russia.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
I am truly glad to present the President of Serbia with a high Russian state decoration – the Order of Alexander Nevsky.
The name of Alexander Nevsky – a great saint and a protector of warriors and diplomats, who brought glory to Russia and himself with his military victories and defended the independence of the motherland in the struggle against foreign invaders – enjoys special respect in our country.
The glorious names of outstanding Serbian leaders are part of the almost 300-year old history of this order. They include Prince Milos Obrenovic who led the struggle for Serbian independence in the 19th century and Prime Minister Nikola Pasic who headed the Serbian Government during World War I.
Now your name, Mr President, has been justly put on the honour list of the recipients of this order.
We know you as a supporter of the closest and warmest possible relations between Russia and Serbia. It is largely owing to your personal contribution that Russia-Serbia cooperation is making successful headway in all areas and is not subject to the international or political environment. We highly value your position of principle, Mr President.
Mr President, I wholeheartedly wish you good health, prosperity and new successes in your country’s highest office.
Thank you for your attention.
Vladimir Putin presents Alexandar Vucic with the Order of Alexander Nevsky.
President of the Republic of Serbia Alexandar Vucic (Speaking Russian.): Mr President, my dear friend,
Allow me to say just a few words in Russian.
Receiving the Order of Alexander Nevsky is a great honour for me and for Serbia, but also great responsibility for my future work to expand cooperation between Russia and Serbia.
My gratitude – it has to be said – is not just protocol: it is profound and sincere. This recognition, this decoration is very important for me.
Why do I say this? Because I am receiving this decoration from President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin. And why do I stress this fact? Because President Vladimir Putin is a very important leader for Russia, he has elevated Russia, guarded its dignity, and also guarded the vital interests of the Serbian people.
Our people, the Serbian people, will never forget what Vladimir Putin did in 2015 when on the instructions of the President of the Russian Federation, Russia vetoed a UN Security Council resolution that would have declared the Serbs a genocidal people. On that occasion President Putin upheld truth and justice, and so we come to everything we will be working on in the future with a great sense of responsibility.
Secondly, our two countries have very good political relations. Of course, we have plenty of opportunities to increase and expand our cooperation on economic matters.
I will never speak like the many other politicians who speak only of their love for Pushkin, Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky.
This decoration, the recognition I received today is a great obligation for me to work for the future relations of Serbia and Russia.
Finally, I am proud of my native Serbia, I am proud of my country which deserves this decoration. In recent years Serbia has successfully preserved its independence, territorial integrity and military neutrality. This recognition means to us that we too have preserved Serbia as a free state.
Once again, thank you, Mr President, for appreciating the complex situation of our country, our Serbia.
And finally I would like to thank my family, because everything I said – it is, as I have said, a great honour for me and my family. I would like to dedicate this decoration to my father and the Vucic family from a small village of Cipulic where the Serbs have always loved Russia as they love Serbia.
<…>
See also
President of Serbia awarded the Order of Alexander Nevsky
January 7, 2019
Additional
Official visit to Serbia
January 17, 2019
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Vucic Aleksandar
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 17, 2019, 18:50
Text versionEvents
Official reception on behalf of President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic hosted an official reception in Belgrade in honour of President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
January 17, 2019
20:30
Belgrade
2 of 2
With President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic.
Chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Milorad Dodik and Serbian Patriarch Irinej also attended the reception.
* * *
President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
(retranslated): President Putin, Chairman Dodik, Prime Minister Brnabic, President of the National Assembly Gojkovic, esteemed guests, Your Holiness,
I am honoured to welcome all of you in Serbia, and I would like to express my delight at the visit of President Putin.
Mr President, my toast will be very short. Thank you for everything you have done for Serbia.
I said before that we would never forget what you did for Serbia in 2015. I believe you can feel the love and respect of the Serbian people today, and you will have more proof of this in the evening. The police have told me that 125,000 people have gathered in Belgrade’s central streets, which has never happened over the past 30 years. This is the result of your dedicated work and the respect you have shown for our small country, Serbia.
Our gratitude, friendship and the sincere fraternal feelings we have for the Russian people will last forever. Our friendship has taken a public expression today thanks to you, Mr President.
There is a huge difference between you and those who were before you. This is why we feel even more grateful to Russia and why we respect Russia and the Russian people even more than in the past years.
Mr President, I wish all the best to you and your people. I wish health, every success and happiness to you. I would like to say that Serbia will forever remain a free and independent country and a friend of Russia.
Here is to health!
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
Thank you once again for this warm welcome and for the invitation to visit your country.
I have said this at the news conference, but I would like to say again that Serbia and Russia are connected by centuries-long friendship and close spiritual ties.
Serbia has always demonstrated, both in good times and in hard times, its strong will and independence, and it has always treasured its sovereignty. Today we have every opportunity not only to overcome our difficulties and trials, but also to do so with dignity, to attain the results we strive for and to gain the upper hand.
Mr President, you have recently shown strong will not only in foreign affairs but also in your domestic policy and in economic matters. I believe that Serbia had a surplus budget for a second year running. It is a very good indicator of your success.
I hope that Russian-Serbian cooperation will not only contribute to our relations but also to the development of our states.
I would like to wish every success to you and to all your colleagues and prosperity to the Serbian people. I raise this toast to your health and the health of everyone here, as well as to the strengthening of Russian-Serbian friendship.
Additional
Official visit to Serbia
January 17, 2019
Geography
Serbia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Vucic Aleksandar
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 17, 2019, 20:30
Text version