Events
Meeting with Mikhail Shemyakin
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with painter and sculptor Mikhail Shemyakin.
July 3, 2019
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
With painter and sculptor Mikhail Shemyakin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Please. Mr Shemyakin, I see you have brought along something interesting.
Mikhail Shemyakin: Just some aesthetic junk. (Laughter.) It is one of the 16 volumes I am working on now. Four volumes are finished. This is the first volume titled Letter. Word. Text.
You probably know that for the past 15 years I have been working on the analysis of human psychology in art. A laboratory has been created that is analysing the developments in this sphere in the West and compares its findings to what is taking place in Russia.
And this is a book published by the FSB, The Investigation Continues. Both you and I are in this book. This is me (shows on the overleaf), and this is you, in a different uniform.
Vladimir Putin: Oh my, where did you find it?
Mikhail Shemyakin: It is one of a series of books. It is the 10th volume. I help them with the design and also with some stories. The whole department send their regards.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you.
Mikhail Shemyakin: They remember you as a young and active man.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much. And what is this?
Mikhail Shemyakin: These are my projects that I would like to discuss with you today. But above all it is my legacy. As it is, I believe that everything I have accomplished after I was kicked out of the Soviet Union with $50 – I have established an institute and collected a huge and unique library, a collection of works and rare autographs, starting from Igor Stravinsky, etc. – I believe that everything I have done should keep going for as long as I live, and that it should belong to Russia.
In short, I would like to donate everything I have accomplished and collected to Russia, so that when I pass away – none of us are immortal – my legacy continues to work. As usual, I ask for your assistance to make this happen.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Shemyakin, but what about your foundation? You have created a foundation in St Petersburg.
Mikhail Shemyakin: The materials I have brought are from that foundation. Do you remember that you gave me a studio where I could live and work? I did not live there for a single day but immediately turned it into an education centre.
I have a small flat in another place, where I live with my wife Sarah on and off. For the past 16 years the foundation has conducted annual academic and educational programmes. We also hold academic exhibitions.
This is an exhibition catalogue. Besides, I am a professor at the Stieglitz Academy, where I train a group of students. They will defend their theses next year. I have six students and two postgraduates. They will graduate next year. I have actually trained international-class professionals.
We are being pushed back everywhere, as you know, with these ridiculous sanctions. But we fight back. So, I believe that “victory will be ours,” as usual and as one of our leaders used to say.
Vladimir Putin: Very good. Let us talk about this in greater detail.
<…>
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2019, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Government members.
July 3, 2019
16:25
Kremlin, Moscow
The meeting began with a discussion on the situation in the Irkutsk Region caused by the flooding. Reports were submitted by Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev
, Irkutsk Region Governor Sergei Levchenko
, and Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko
.
First Deputy Prime Minister – Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
, deputy prime ministers Tatyana Golikova
, Alexei Gordeyev
, Maxim Akimov
, and Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev
all reported on the status of the instructions given after the Direct Line programme.
The main subject of the meeting was legislative support for implementing national projects.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Now aboutour second issue, which is the main issue, legislative support for implementing national projects. I want to say a few words about this.
Regulatory support for national projects is undoubtedly a complicated issue. It covers a wide range of new areas where we need to build a system of legal regulations almost from scratch.
I primarily mean the digital economy. We will have to adopt over 50 regulatory acts, 50 laws. In spite of the sophisticated and challenging nature of this work, we must do it professionally and with high quality, and set a legal background for national projects and development programmes. This concerns both the new areas that I mentioned and the traditional sectors, specifically the business climate, promoting exports, the environment, housing and public utilities, which we just talked about, transport and many other areas.
I know, and Mr Medvedev and I have discussed this many times, the Government has done a lot in this respect. Some framework laws have been passed, and more have been submitted for consideration by the parliament. It is important to expedite the background work for this, but that does not mean it should be done at the expense of quality. We do not need to rush in this respect. But it is essential to adopt the necessary acts during the current spring session or at least the autumn session, better at the beginning.
If there are any difficulties with this, let’s discuss it now. I would ask our colleagues from the Presidential Executive Office to oversee this important process and help the government promote these issues in the State Duma.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2019, 16:25
Text versionEvents
Development of Parliamentarism International Forum
Vladimir Putin took part in the second Development of Parliamentarism International Forum.
July 3, 2019
15:25
Moscow
1 of 4
At the second Development of Parliamentarism International Forum.
The main topics of the forum are international security and stability, development of the digital economy, youth and environmental policy, and the prospects for the work of inter-parliamentary institutions.
The forum was attended by representatives of 132 states, about 800 parliamentarians and experts, including, inter alia, President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union Gabriela Cuevas Barron, Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Mustafa Sentop, President of the Pan-African Parliament Roger Nkodo Dang, President of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference Jorgen Pettersson and others.
The first Development of Parliamentarism International Forum was held in Moscow in June 2018.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, friends,
I am absolutely delighted to welcome to the Russian capital all our guests – heads of parliaments, heads of international parliamentary organisations, people’s representatives in the broadest sense of the word, politicians, scientists and experts representing a whole range of different countries.
Your forum is being held for the second time and has already proved its relevance and significance, the absolute relevance and importance of inter-parliamentary interaction and dialogue. The modern world badly needs such broad cooperation, an open and free exchange of views, building trust and seeking mutual understanding.
Its global agenda is complex and controversial. It is filled with great challenges and real threats that do actually exist, the answers to which can and will be effective only if these threats are recognised by the entire international community and if the states wish to discuss and find joint solutions to common challenges in a rapidly changing world.
Its transformation to multi-polarity is already obvious. At the same time, the stubborn unwillingness of some countries to accept this new reality results in an increased confrontation in the world, ignoring international law, and undermining strategic stability. All this hinders collaboration.
I am confident that refocusing the discussion of the updated global development model on concepts such as sovereignty and peoples’ right to adhere to their original path would enable us to reach feasible agreements, and international forums and summits would adopt not only declarations but also binding rules based on the interests of all states and their mutual responsibility.
This should open up fundamentally new opportunities for the entire global community – opportunities for effectively fighting international terrorism and drug trafficking, for ensuring information security, and for removing barriers to trade and technology that are hindering global growth.
What is extremely important – it will help us overcome the enormous inequality in the development of different regions in the world and the migration crisis triggered by that inequality. These are issues facing billions of people on the planet.
The transition of the global economy to a new technological order objectively generates global challenges. In this context, all of us face the need to support sustainable development and guarantee the social and legal protection of individuals.
The duty of all responsible politicians, academics and business people is to comprehend the nature of the technological revolution, the present and the future of the digital age; to coherently and, most importantly, timely deal with such issues as eliminating or smoothing out differences and risks arising during this revolution.
There are many of them. So we need to close the ranks for the sake of using the enormous possibilities offered by technological breakthroughs in various fields in the interests of people.
I would add that digital technology, artificial intelligence, the era of social media and big data will undoubtedly have an impact on politics and parliamentary activity, and on legislative practices; it will open new horizons for expanding direct democracy, direct, interactive participation of citizens in decision-making, and developing legal frameworks from the national to the local level.
In short, new technology can play a huge positive role in enhancing transparency, democratising public and political life, and strengthening democratic institutions – but only if we all keep in mind the most important thing. Digital technology cannot replace freedom; it is the people who are always the source of power. The individual, and their rights, are the backbone and cornerstone of development.
And of course, the most important civilizational task is to protect the planet from environmental and climatic degradation. Speculating on this hot topic, resisting progress, and retracting to outdated and primitive solutions will not help; but finding a real balance between the techno- and the eco-sphere, between nature and human prosperity, quality of life and longevity will.
I believe the parliamentary community has an enormous role to play in consolidating the efforts of countries and peoples for resolving common problems. You possess real, effective levers.
First, legislative regulation has been and will be a basic factor in the world’s ongoing transformations.
Second, you have absolute democratic legitimacy. You are endowed with high authority – to express the will of your nations and, let me repeat, to act and cooperate in the interests of people.
Today, the main mission of parliamentary diplomacy is to promote a unifying constructive agenda, facilitate the harmonisation of economic and humanitarian ties, build up trust between peoples and enhance the responsibility of the world’s parliamentary community for its ability to uphold democratic values.
After all, it is possible to conduct practical and trustworthy dialogue, exchange legislative practices, improve and develop the system of international law only in a sound, strong inter-parliamentary environment.
Your forum fully meets these requirements. Indicatively, your emphases on certain topics and those made at the recent G20 summit and during discussions at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum converge and largely supplement each other.
Promoting sustainable development, making education and healthcare more accessible, strengthening human capital, resolving environmental problems, implementing digitisation and upgrading the labour market are priorities for the entire international community.
These issues may be resolved successfully only in conditions of an open and safe common information space whereby all countries, civil societies and the media are truly interested in disseminating unbiased, honest information and straightforward news.
I know the forum paid special attention to this issue. Let me repeat that consolidation of parliaments in drafting common rules for the exchange of information and its protection are very important for enhancing human rights and freedoms, and establishing and developing a balanced and fair world order.
However, regrettably, we are seeing attempts to monopolise the global information space and misappropriate “the right to the truth.” Incidentally, these trends are expanding at the national level, when some countries actually impose censorship bans and barriers. We believe such bans on a different opinion fundamentally contradict democratic values, the principle of the freedom of speech and, in general, a parliamentary tradition that inherently implies respect for a different opinion or position.
Colleagues,
In conclusion I would like to thank all of you for deeming it important and necessary to attend this forum and discuss the multifaceted issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation based on trust and constructive approaches.
Such respectful and productive cooperation makes a tangible contribution to the consolidation of genuine partnership between our countries and peoples.
Let me wish you success in your work today and your activities at home.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
Foreign policy
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2019, 15:25
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Mustafa Sentop
During the second Development of Parliamentarism International Forum, Vladimir Putin briefly spoke with Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Mustafa Sentop.
July 3, 2019
15:20
Moscow
During the second Development of Parliamentarism International Forum, Vladimir Putin briefly spoke with Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Mustafa Sentop.
Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Mustafa Sentop (retranslated):Mr President, good afternoon.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon. President Erdogan said that you were coming to Moscow.
Mustafa Sentop: Yes, I am here. I am very pleased to meet you. This is my first visit to Moscow as the parliament speaker.
You have a very busy schedule. And I would like to express my condolences over the death of the sailors in the Barents Sea. Please accept my sympathy during this difficult period of time.
Vladimir Putin: Indeed, they definitely were the elite of the Navy. I am so sorry. This is such a tragedy for us.
Mustafa Sentop: I will meet with [State Duma Speaker] Mr Volodin, and [Federation Council Speaker] Ms Matviyenko. We have a busy agenda of productive work.
We have established a high-level commission that will raise our inter-parliamentary cooperation to a qualitatively new level. We have signed a protocol on this.
<…>
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2019, 15:20
Text versionEvents
Presentation of foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence
Vladimir Putin received letters of credence from the newly-appointed foreign ambassadors. The ceremony was traditionally held in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s Alexander Hall.
July 3, 2019
13:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 19
Presentation of foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence.
Letters of credence were presented to the President of Russia by: Denis Kalume Numbi (Democratic Republic of the Congo), Mohamed Yongawo (Republic of Sierra Leone), Tovar da Silva Nunes (Federative Republic of Brazil), Alemayehu Tegenu Aargau (Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia), Vladimir Semashko (Republic of Belarus), Alba Azucena Torres Mejia (Republic of Nicaragua), Mehmet Samsar (Republic of Turkey), Tomislav Car (Republic of Croatia), Alibek Jekshenkulov (Kyrgyz Republic), Clemens Handuukeme Kashuupulwa (Republic of Namibia), Hamid Hamouni (Islamic Republic of Mauritania), Mohammad Latif Bahand (Islamic Republic of Afghanistan), Tasia Athanasiou (Hellenic Republic), Lee Sok-bae (Republic of Korea), Andreas Zenonos (Republic of Cyprus), Lilliam Rodriguez Jimenez (Republic of Costa Rica), Louis Sylvestre Radegonde (Republic of Seychelles), and Chandapiwa Nteta (Republic of Botswana).
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues,
I am delighted to welcome you to the Kremlin for the presentation of your letters of credence. You have an important and responsible mission – to facilitate the development of relations between your states and Russia. I hope that you will remain devoted to your mission of promoting political dialogue, as well as economic, humanitarian and other ties between our nations.
We are wholeheartedly interested in the success of your efforts, and we will certainly provide all-round assistance to your positive initiatives.
Russia is open to mutually beneficial cooperation with all states without exception based on equality and respect for each other’s interests, non-interference in internal affairs and strict compliance with international law.
As a permanent member of the UN Security Council, Russia is making a contribution to the settlement of acute regional crises and other outstanding international problems.
We stand for equal and indivisible security and a fair system of international economic relations without unscrupulous competition and unilateral and politically driven sanctions and restrictions.
We are guided by these principles in our work at the UN and its specialised and regional agencies, as well as at other multilateral organisations, including G20, which has recently held its summit meeting in Osaka.
In the near future, Russia will host a series of major international events. In June, Russia assumed the presidency of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, and we will preside in BRICS from early 2020.
In July 2020, we will host summits of these two associations. We are preparing for them, we are steering towards a joint partnership, and we aim to advance common priorities in such areas as politics, security, economy, finance, culture and humanitarian ties.
In September 2019, Vladivostok will host a regular Eastern Economic Forum. We are expecting to receive Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi and Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe as guests of honour.
We are planning to review cooperation prospects and the implementation of major joint investment projects in the Asia-Pacific region and to exchange opinions on ways of merging various integration processes so as to create a major Eurasian partnership.
In early October, Moscow will host Russian Energy Week, whose participants will discuss ensuring global energy security, providing all-round energy access and reducing volatile prices on global energy markets.
We are preparing actively for the Russia-Africa summit, which will take place in Russia for the first time. It will be held in late October in Sochi and will be preceded by the Russian-African Economic Forum. President of Egypt and incumbent Chairman of the African Union Abdel Fattah el-Sisi will co-chair the Sochi forum together with us.
We have sent invitations to all leaders of African states and to the heads of the largest sub-regional associations and organisations. We hope we will be able to take dialogue between Russia and Africa to an entirely new level, helping maintain regional peace and security, as well as sustainable development on the African continent.
We are certainly preparing for a grand celebration of the 75th anniversary of Victory over Nazism in WWII next May. There will be a large-scale programme of celebrations, and we hope the high representatives of many states will attend.
We are aware of the importance of carefully preserving the historical truth about this great event of the 20th century. We remember how much this victory cost, and we consider it necessary to always keep this in mind, and never forget the lessons of that terrible war.
Ladies and gentlemen,
The heads of 18 diplomatic missions are present here today. By tradition, I would like to say a few words about Russia’s relations with each of the states you represent.
We are interested in further developing cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo in politics, trade, and international affairs. We will continue to assist our Congolese partners in improving the socioeconomic situation in their country.
Russia’s relations with Sierra Leone are based on the traditions of friendship and mutual understanding. We can see prospects for joint work in such sectors as mining, agriculture, and fishing.
Brazil is one of our key partners on the international stage. We are consistently building bilateral relations, and developing cooperation in the energy sector, in the field of innovation and high technology.
Brazil currently presides in BRICS, and only recently held a successful meeting of the BRICS leaders in Osaka. We will take part in the next, 11th BRICS summit in Brazil in November, after which, the rotating presidency will go to Russia.
We are satisfied with the level of cooperation with Ethiopia. Last year, our countries marked the 120th anniversary of diplomatic relations. Our bilateral dialogue covers a range of important political, economic, research and education topics. We will continue to strengthen cooperation in international and regional affairs.
Belarus is Russia’s closest ally. Taking this opportunity, I would like to once again congratulate the Belarusian people and the leadership of the republic on their national holiday, Independence Day. On this very day, July 3, 75 years ago, Minsk was liberated from Nazi invaders.
This year, numerous events are being held dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Union State. We are committed to the further development of close integration with our Belarusian partners. This topic will be discussed at the talks with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko scheduled to take place on the sidelines of the 6th Forum of Regions of Belarus and Russia on July 18 in St Petersburg.
In December, we will celebrate the 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations with Nicaragua. Our countries share strong bonds of friendship and implement joint projects in healthcare, personnel training and disaster relief. We support the policy of this country’s leadership in regional and international affairs.
Partnership with our neighbour Turkey has reached a strategic level. We are in constant contact with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In April, Moscow hosted a productive meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council.
We are successfully implementing such major projects as the construction of the Akkuyu nuclear power plant and the TurkStream gas pipeline. We also have many other interesting projects and joint ventures.
A significant factor in international stability is the coordinated efforts of Russia and Turkey to normalise the situation and launch the peace process in Syria.
There are good opportunities for the further development of trade, investment and cultural ties with Croatia. Recently, a series of fruitful top-level and high-level meetings has been held; inter-agency, inter-parliamentary and inter-regional exchanges are expanding.
We have a strategic partnership and allied relations with Kyrgyzstan. Our countries participate in the Eurasian integration processes, including close cooperation within the Eurasian Economic Union, and promote international and regional security through the CSTO.
The state visit to Kyrgyzstan in March gave a new impetus to trade, economic, military-technical, cultural and other cooperation.
Cooperation with Namibia is successfully developing in such sectors as mineral resource development and uranium mining, as well as in the energy, fisheries, agriculture, tourism, military-technical and cultural areas.
Namibia pursues a balanced policy in international affairs and plays an active role in peace-making efforts of the Southern African Development Community.
We work together with Mauritania in marine fishing and hydrocarbon production. Our Mauritanian partners make a significant contribution to the fight against terrorism in the Sahara-Sahel zone.
This year we celebrate the centennial of diplomatic relations with Afghanistan. We continue to assist in establishing a peaceful independent Afghan state, free from terrorism and drug-related crimes.
We advocate for an end to the armed conflict in Afghanistan and the launch of an inclusive dialogue involving a wide range of social and political forces.
We are planning to continue facilitating this process together with our Moscow format partners and the SCO-Afghanistan contact group.
Russia and Greece are linked by deep spiritual and historical ties. This year, our countries are holding the Cross Year of Language and Literature, and we are ready for further cooperation in virtually every area.
Relations with the Republic of Korea are rapidly advancing. Next year, we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. Russia and South Korea are currently implementing large-scale joint trade and investment projects.
We work closely on the situation on the Korean peninsula and advocate for its prompt settlement through political and diplomatic means. We recently talked about this with President Moon Jae-in at the G20 Summit in Japan.
We maintain close political, cultural and spiritual ties with the Republic of Cyprus. It is a favourite holiday spot for Russian citizens; last year, over 800,000 Russians visited Cyprus resorts.
Russia consistently advocates for a comprehensive, just and viable settlement of the Cyprus problem based on the relevant UN Security Council resolutions.
We are interested in cooperating with Costa Rica in the trade, economic and cultural areas. This May, we celebrated the 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. Our agreement on visa-free travel has recently entered into force.
We maintain friendly relations with the Republic of Seychelles. We count on further joint work to expand our cooperation, including in tourism.
Relations with Botswana encompass the trade, economic and humanitarian spheres; the intergovernmental agreement on military-technical cooperation is currently in force. Last year, we signed an intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in defence.
Ladies and gentlemen,
In conclusion, I would like to once again wish you all success in your important mission. I hope that your time in Russia will help you get to know our country better, get a better understanding of its people, and learn more about Russian history and culture. I am sure that it will leave the best of impressions on you.
Thank you for your attention. Good luck!
See also
Visit to Japan. G20 summit
June 28 − 29, 2019
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 3, 2019, 13:25
Text version