Events
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads
Vladimir Putin continued a series of meetings on the development of the defence industry. During the third such meeting, the participants reviewed the state and development prospects of the orbital component of the Russian Aerospace Forces.
May 16, 2019
20:00
Sochi
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
During today’s meeting, we will review the state and prospects for developing the orbital component of the Russian Aerospace Forces.
There is no need to talk in detail about the fact that the preservation of strategic stability and military parity directly depends on our ability to effectively resolve security tasks in outer space.
In the past six years, much has been done to upgrade the Russian orbital group of military and dual-purpose spacecraft. This segment has been reequipped by almost 80 percent and increased by 50 percent.
The space-based section of the missile warning system is continually being developed. During the past three years, it has recorded, in a timely manner, that is, according to standards, the launches of over 150 ballistic missiles and carrier missiles of both Russian and foreign origin.
The capability of the Earth remote probing orbital group, satellite communications and the global navigation system have been improved.
At the same time, we are well aware of the systematic problems in the aerospace industry. These issues must be resolved. And the main point – I have said this many times – is that old capacities cannot be endlessly exploited. It is necessary to move forward and steadily develop the Russian orbital group of military and dual-purpose spacecraft.
Here are the objectives that I believe are the most important. To begin with, the design bureaus and aerospace industry contractors must fulfill their state defence orders in full. The produce should strictly comply with the tactical and technical requirements for the latest space systems and complexes including observation instrument resolution, the lifespan of spacecraft in orbit, and the volume and speed of information transmission through satellite communications systems. Importantly, the defence companies should work on this in close cooperation with the Aerospace Forces.
Next, the information that comes from space systems and complexes directly affects the nature of conflicts today. You and I are perfectly aware of this, and we saw this as we were fighting the terrorist groups in Syria. So, the military command bodies at units and formations must be provided with systems and complexes of proper quality and in sufficient numbers, primarily, modern and reliable satellite communication, navigational and other types of space data.
Of course, the Defence Ministry and other departments should have access to up-to-the-minute reliable information on the aerospace, meteorological and cartographic situation, as well as the status and activity of foreign armed forces.
Finally, it is important to expand the ground infrastructure to provide for the launch of military and dual-purpose spacecraft, including at the Plesetsk Cosmodrome.
For example, the latest Russian-made Soyuz-2 and Angara booster rocket launch systems made it possible to cut the number of missile types in half, which creates a tangible effect.
Also, we now have advanced technology for launching artificial satellites into Earth’s orbit, satellites that are made with domestic components and parts. We must, by all means, continue this work.
Let us move on to the reports.
<…>
See also
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials and defence industry CEOs
May 13, 2019
Meeting with of Defence Ministry leadership and defence industry heads
May 15, 2019
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
National security
Space
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 16, 2019, 20:00
Text version