Events
Reception to mark Navy Day
Vladimir Putin attended the official reception to mark Navy Day at the Admiralty building.
July 28, 2019
13:15
St Petersburg
2 of 4
At the reception to mark Navy Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades, veterans,
Today, Russia is honouring its glorious Navy. We feel proud of its history and feats, and its mariners' untainted service to the Fatherland.
For the naval brotherhood and all generations of mariners, being true to the Motherland has been and remains a powerful spiritual foundation for rich naval traditions. For over 300 years, seamanship has been one of the most respected professions in Russia. Our people highly value the courage and bravery of sailors, the will and boldness of naval officers, the discipline and unity of naval crews and their strong skills in long and difficult naval missions, staying unfailingly committed to the Russian Navy traditions, and the solid security of the Fatherland's maritime boundaries.
The tasks Russia's Navy solves today require advanced knowledge and extensive professional skills. However, being true to the rough and exciting power of the sea and feeling proud of their ships remain important for mariners. As writer Leonid Sobolev rightly put it, ”No naval heart will be able to ever forget his own ship.“
Comrades,
Today, Russia boasts the world's longest maritime boundary with access to three oceans. We have a powerful navy with a great history, which has been shaped by the labour, talent, will and victories of our mariners over many generations.
Our duty is to enrich the might of the Russian Navy, its surface and submarine forces, coastal units, and naval infantry. Their successful development is an essential condition for boosting the security of Russia and its citizens.
The Government has taken enormous efforts to strengthen the naval fleet. The share of advanced naval pieces of armament and military hardware has exceeded 62 percent. We have to move beyond that, to work consistently and to fully use the latest developments of our researchers, engineers and designers.
I would like to thank all those who work in the country's defence industry sector and, of course, Russian shipbuilders, those excellent masters who work at Russian shipyards.
Our reception is taking place at the Admiralty, which is rightfully considered the symbol of the Russian Navy's creation, development and glory. Once again, my congratulations to you on this holiday. Here is to the Russian Navy, its power and victories, to our mariners, their commitment to the Motherland, and to Russia!
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 28, 2019, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Main Naval Parade
On Navy Day, the Supreme Commander-in-Chief reviewed the Main Naval Parade that took place on the Neva River in St. Petersburg.
July 28, 2019
12:10
St Petersburg
10 of 65
The Supreme Commander-in-Chief from a cutter reviewed fleet formations, lined up for the parade in the Kronstadt roadstead.
Navy personnel from the Baltic, Black Sea, Northern and Pacific fleets and the Caspian Flotilla, as well as various ships and cutters along with a Navy aviation group, took part in the parade.
Earlier today, the President sailed on board the cutter Raptor around combat ships gathered in parade formation in the inner harbor of Kronstadt and greeted the crews. Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Navy Commander-in-Chief Nikolai Yevmenov accompanied the President.
* * *
Speech at the Main Naval Parade
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades sailors, petty officers, midshipmen, officers and admirals,
Dear veterans,
Citizens of Russia,
My congratulations to you on Navy Day.
This holiday is celebrated across Russia. Today, we are honouring those who faithfully and loyally served Russia and those who have devoted their lives to serving our country today, both within our maritime boundaries and far away from our Motherland.
To honour Russia's Navy, naval parades are taking place in Severomorsk, Vladivostok, Sevastopol, Astrakhan, Baltiysk, and, of course, St Petersburg.
St Petersburg was the city where Peter the Great founded the Russian navy and where it went through its baptism of fire. This the city that was the starting point for legendary researchers' voyages, with naval officers heading almost all the expeditions. Their perseverance, inquisitiveness and brilliant education resulted in outstanding discoveries made in geography, biology and geology.
The Navy greatly contributed to the development of national science, and today is among the leaders in utilising the latest equipment, as well as efficiently using and developing promising engineering and design solutions unparalleled anywhere else in the world.
This year alone, the Navy fleet will be replenished with 15 ships and combatant cutters. Efforts are also being taken to update marine aviation and coastal defence troops, improve naval base infrastructure, and resume round-the-world cruises. The frigate Admiral Flota Sovetskogo Soyuza Gorshkov, which is taking part in today's parade, has spent five months sailing four different oceans.
The Russian Navy successfully secures our country's defense capability and its national interests, and is capable responding to any aggressor. This is ensured by unique armaments; yet the main thing here is our naval crews' courage and their level of training.
Devotion to St Andrew's flag and the Motherland remains a special and sublime duty for them. While carrying out their combat duties, mariners stand to the end on their combat duty; ready to sacrifice their lives for their vessel, their nation and the Fatherland, as has always been the case with the Russian fleet.
Examples of such valour can be found in the feats by the crews of the Russian brig Mercury and the frigate Aurora, which accepted and were victorious in battles against an enemy with superior forces in the era of military campaigns of the 19th century; the heroes of the vessels Varyag, Koreyetz and Steregushchy who died refusing to succumb to the enemy; mariners of the battleship Slava, which defended the approaches to Russia's capital in 1917. There have been also unparalleled feats by the garrisons of Sevastopol Coastal Batteries 30 and 35 during the Great Patriotic War, the crew of the K-19 submarine, which saved the world from tragedy during the Soviet era, and the mariners who recently died aboard a deep water submersible craft in the Barents Sea. The Motherland has and will always remember Russian mariners' deeds.
I am addressing now each crew, each Naval personnel member of the Russian Navy. I thank sailors, petty officers, midshipmen, officers and admirals for their commitment to our heroic traditions and naval mariners' values, to unity and restraint, to being true to their duty, to their courage and bravery.
Thank you for your service to Russia.
Friends,
The heroism of our mariners, the talent of naval commanders and shipbuilders, the courage of scientists and the bravery of explorers – this has all brought glory to Russia as a great naval power. We will not simply preserve this status; we will move beyond it. We will build a fleet with unique capabilities, focused on a long-term historical perspective – the fleet of a strong and sovereign nation.
I am confident we will succeed. This is ensured by today's success of our mariners, their aspiration to meet the needs of the age and look to the future, and the readiness to constantly advance their skills and confidently execute the command “full steam ahead!”
Happy holiday to you, friends. Hail the Russian Navy.
Hurrah!
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 28, 2019, 12:10
Text version