Events
Greetings to Russian women on International Women’s Day
March 8, 2019
09:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Greetings to Russian women on International Women’s Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear women of Russia,
My best greetings on International Women’s Day. This spring day is always full of flowers and gifts, lit up with the joy of our women and your shining smiles. Today all men hurry to express to you their admiration and respect, confess their warmest feelings, say heartfelt thank you to their wives, mothers, grandmothers, daughters and colleagues. We know that your spiritual generosity is truly boundless. Yes, you are endowed with it by nature. But you, dear women, magnify that endowment immensely by your attitude to the people close to you and to your work.
You are reliable workers and responsible leaders, you can see the most minute nuances, professionally and creatively deal with any matter.
It is hard to imagine our history, the progress of our country without the creative contribution of the great women of Russia. In our age you can conquer the highest professional heights.
Reaching success is in the nature of our women. You manage to do everything, both at work and at home. And you remain beautiful, brilliant, charming, the centre of gravity inside the family that knows how to inspire and support, warm and comfort. It is your fate to walk the whole path of creating a new life – giving birth to a child. This great happiness of motherhood, raising children transforms the world, fills it with kindness, tenderness and mercy, reaffirms the traditional values that have always been Russia’s strength.
Our parents are dear to us at any age. But we have special feelings to our mothers: we are grateful to them for their care and unconditional love, for understanding and forgiving us. Many years later we still remember their lessons and instructions, their kind eyes and hands. We are always indebted to you. It concerns each and every one of us, as well as the state as a whole, which is yet to do a lot – primarily for those who give all their efforts to raising children.
Dear women,
We, men, must say frankly that it is not always easy for us to be worthy of you. But we will be striving for that and do everything for the women to feel our strong reliable shoulder, to feel that we always appreciate and love you, and not just on holidays.
Once again my greetings to all women on International Women’s Day. I wish you health and happiness.
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 8, 2019, 09:00
Text version