Events
Meeting with Roscosmos CEO Dmitry Rogozin
Roscosmos CEO Dmitry Rogozin briefed the President on the progress in the construction of the second stage of Vostochny Space Centre.
November 23, 2019
18:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
General Director of Roscosmos State Corporation Dmitry Rogozin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rogozin, we met at Vostochny fairly recently, although several months have already passed, and discussed the issues of the industry’s development and the construction of the space centre. What has been done in the past period, which issues remain unresolved, and what is progressing as we agreed?
Roscosmos CEO Dmitry Rogozin: Mr President,
I would like to report on the construction of the second stage of Vostochny Space Centre. As you know, the first stage comprised the creation of the launch pad and a technical complex with infrastructure for the Soyuz 2 rocket. The second stage is for the Angara, a heavy load rocket. In accordance with your executive order, we are planning to have the first launch in 2023.
See also
Meeting on infrastructure development for Vostochny Space Launch Centre and future rocket complexes
September 6, 2019
You were at the space centre on September 6, and I want to report on the work done since then. Let me show you the monitoring of the construction site that we conduct, and all the possibilities and technologies for objective analysis.
At present, we have over 1,260 workers and 140 units of equipment involved in the construction. This fully meets the construction project requirements. The work is proceeding according to schedule despite the cold weather – there are freezing temperatures out there. I personally inspect the construction site each month. There is a field office directly on site.
We decided to use Roscosmos technologies for objective monitoring, that is our orbital satellite group for remote Earth probing. We take images and compare weekly progress to make the process more or less evident. Later this data is used not just as a photo but is mathematically processed with markers indicating each change in the area of construction, work volumes and even the number of people, we see all of that.
To have more details and a complete and objective analysis of what is really going on at the facility, we make additional footage, aerial photography by drones. As a result, we think that the general directorate and the management of Roscosmos State Corporation have all the objective information about what is going on at the construction site.
Currently work is ongoing to increase the amount of labour on hand, to acquire resources and materials and build structures. A cosmodrome is obviously not just concrete and sand, it is primarily an extremely complex structure, which must hold up in line with its technologies, and this is what we monitor with utmost scrutiny.
We are building a camp to accommodate 2,010 workers in the nearest future.
Vladimir Putin: What about the camp built earlier?
Dmitry Rogozin: It is occupied currently now by the 1,260 workers we have, they live in the camps built by military construction entities of the Defence Ministry of the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: So you are using them.
Dmitry Rogozin: We are using them. We are renting them, naturally, and people are living them. But this is not enough for us anyway. The peak in construction work will be next summer with approximately 5,000 workers. At any rate, we are erecting modern warm residences with heated floors, a good high-quality dormitory and a canteen.
Work is ongoing on the construction site of 13 major buildings and facilities. The key facility is the launch pad. The pit is 71 percent deep. Now, by mid-December we are unfolding large heavy-duty tents. They will provide for heating during concrete-laying works, which will be done during the winter.
I would also like to add on the remaining facilities, it is not only the launch pad; the second stage consists of 12 more facilities. The design documentation is ready; all state expert evaluations have been obtained. To avoid mistakes and loss of quality, a contract was signed with Glavgosekspertiza agency, the first ever in Russia. So as of now I have no doubt that we will finish the project within the timeframe you have set.
Vladimir Putin: How many facilities overall?
Dmitry Rogozin: 13 in total, in the second stage. But the launch pad is the most complex of them.
It should be borne in mind, Mr President, that in accordance with your decision we must already start considering a draft design of the super heavy rocket, for 2028. Naturally, the launching complex will be built earlier.
Besides, on September 6, you made a decision to start testing the Oryol cargo spaceship with the Angara rocket in 2023. It means we have to make some adjustments to our plans, deploy a low pressure chamber and many other infrastructure objects within the second stage. All this is also being done
Vladimir Putin: Fine.
<…>
Topics
Space
Persons
Rogozin Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2019, 18:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Metropolitan Korniliy of Moscow and All Russia of Russian Orthodox Old-Rite Church
The President met with Metropolitan Korniliy of Moscow and All Russia of the Russian Orthodox Old-Rite Church.
November 23, 2019
17:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 5
Metropolitan Kornily of Moscow and All Russia of Old-Rite Russian Orthodox Church.
Metropolitan Korniliy: Mr President,
Thank you for the opportunity to have a personal meeting to discuss the interaction between the state and our Old-Rite Church.
On behalf of Russian Old-Believers, I would like to thank you, first of all, for that historic visit to our spiritual centre in Rogozhki in 2017. It was a truly historic event that had an encouraging continuation for us, Old-Believers.
See also
Visit to the Rogozhskaya Zastava Spiritual Centre of the Russian Orthodox Old-Rite Church
May 31, 2017
I would also like to thank you for heading the processes of resettling Old-Believers from abroad. We once discussed this process, and now 130 Old-Believer families have been resettled in the Far East from Latin America, 15 new families came to be in the 2–3 years and 30 children were born. I think that this will certainly continue. At present 50 families from Latin America (they visited Russia last year) are ready to move to Russia in 2020.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Did they have problems there? How are they coping?
Metropolitan Korniliy: They are coping well, with God’s help. They are unassuming people. As they say, no need to help, all they need is no interference. Thank God.
Next, I would like to thank you for preparations for the 400th anniversary of Archpriest Avvakum, which is coming next year. It is a big, momentous, historical event for us Old-Believers. He is the founder of Russian literature; he laid the foundations of Russian literary language. Tolstoy, Gorky and many other great writers acknowledged that the beginning was indeed laid by Archpriest Avvakum.
We, Old-Believers, are preparing. We have had an international forum. In 2020, there will be another forum with the Government’s support. We greatly appreciate your support for this holiday shared by all Old-Believers. I think everything will run smoothly with God’s help.
I would like to discuss these issues in greater detail and thank you once again for your initiatives.
<…>
Topics
Compatriots
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2019, 17:40
Text versionEvents
United Russia party congress
Vladimir Putin addressed the plenary meeting of the United Russia political party’s 19th congress.
November 23, 2019
14:45
Moscow
10 of 19
Speech at the plenary meeting of the 19th United Russia party congress. Photo: Mikhail Metzel, TASS
The events of the congress, which began at the VDNKh exhibition centre in Moscow on November 22 to last for two days, will be attended by around 2,000 participants, including leaders of the party’s regional branches and public reception offices, State Duma deputies, members of the Federation Council, experts and political analysts.
* * *
Address at the United Russia party’s 19th congress
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Mr Medvedev,
Friends,
My greetings to the participants in the 19th congress of the United Russia party. I would like to thank all of you – those present here and those who are working on the ground at the moment, for the joint work and for your substantive and proactive support.
United Russia is the nation’s largest and leading political party. It has gained this status because it invariably had as its priority the protection of the people’s interests, the interests of our Motherland, and it did not fear responsibility at the most complicated turns of history. The party took on this responsibility, and did not shirk difficult decisions that would not yield immediate popularity or extra votes at elections but that are vitally needed for the country, its security, stability and people’s lives in the long-term perspective.
The party repeatedly displayed its will, proved that it had been right, and offered a unifying agenda based on freedom and wellbeing, patriotism, our traditional values, a strong civil society and a strong state.
The key issue in the party’s work is being together with the people, having a thorough knowledge of their demands, needs and problems, responding to them without delay, helping, explaining and protecting. This daily communication with the people is the only way you will reassert and enhance your strength, and prove your leadership through real work, attention to and care for Russian citizens.
Most important are well-coordinated and responsible efforts to implement Russia’s development priorities. This is the key challenge for each of you, for your regional teams and for everyone who supports the party.
I ask you to focus on reaching visible results in all the national projects so that the people feel positive changes in their lives, and, importantly, so that they take part in this joint work and see that all our projects are directed at positive, qualitative changes in people’s lives. Results attained for the sake of the people rather than words or unwarranted empty promises must become the party’s strongest argument in the upcoming election campaigns at all levels, from municipal to parliamentary.
This concerns not just the number of our party members that will get voter support, even though this is very important for any political force. The upcoming elections have tremendous significance for ensuring the continuity of national development, for maintaining and increasing what has already been done and achieved. And we have achieved a great deal.
It is necessary to secure public support for Russia’s long-term advancement strategy. This is the most crucial task and the essence of the party’s activities.
You and our supporters have no moral right to leave anything unfinished, to cut corners, to hide behind empty words, to use populism as a screen for your incompetence and inability. The party’s reputation and image are determined by the people who – I am about to say an extremely important thing now – have their own internal position. This is the foundation for the work of any political force. The people who have their internal moral beacons. Such people must be ready to stand up for these beacons and principles, to fight for them in any situation no matter how hard it is. Idle talkers and opportunists who tapped into the party’s status will betray not only the party but also the country if anything happens. We have witnessed that a number of times in our history, including our recent history.
The party’s expert and intellectual potential is especially needed now, as well as its ability to maintain a constructive discussion to attain common national goals.
They do not materialise somewhere “in the air” or in a vacuum. They have an absolutely living, concrete perspective and are made up of particular projects, initiatives and routine work. Everything matters here – both large infrastructure construction projects, which are kicking off across the country and influence the lives of millions of people, and the modernisation and construction of rural schools, urban clinics, rural first aid centres, improvement in the urban and rural streets and courtyards, which is the space our people live in.
Let me reiterate, the key benchmark, the criterion for the party’s activities is the people’s opinion of the current situation, of the dynamics of positive change in all spheres that affect the quality of an individual’s life. How well do the changes meet expectations? What needs adjusting or correcting? It is this kind of inclusive and real-life efforts that people are expecting from any political party, especially from such a powerful party with such extensive membership as United Russia, which should be a close and responsive partner for them. Do not let any mistakes be hidden, or any flaws get swept under the carpet
I have just said and will probably repeat that we often say that United Russia is the ruling party. It is, in a way this is true. But it does not mean in any way that the party is fully associated with any official or with any level of executive power. A party is a powerful nationwide public political organisation and force, which does not mean at all that it should agree with any action or opinion of an official, regardless of their high position. Even if that person believes to be a party member and underscores his close affiliation with it. The worst thing a party can do is search for comfort, become convenient and compliant for “bosses” at any level.
I ask you to be the leading party in everything. Look for and raise acute public issues, do not wait for the next Direct Line, which I hold every year. Try to solve these issues yourselves and get justice done. You know and see for yourselves that they show a hospital falling to pieces, or something like this, or a school with so many children that some of them have five shifts. But being on the ground, you are supposed to see all that, and if officials do not, you should chase them and shake them up, and get things done.
Let me say again that our goal is to achieve a breakthrough in Russia’s development. This historic challenge concerns everyone – the authorities, the political system and all of society. To set and maintain such a high rate, the rate of transformation, the party itself must change from within, to be utterly open and accessible, including to young people and to our supporters from the volunteer movement.
You must certainly direct the party’s resources at promoting bright, talented, active and patriotically minded youth. The party must prove that it is an effective social lift for those who want to serve their Motherland. United Russia must be a party of leaders defined not by their status or position but by the way they serve their people. I ask Mr Medvedev also to support, as before, all movements and trends of this kind, and all programmes and projects of this kind.
Colleagues, for all the ideological diversity, there are values that unite us all regardless of party affiliation. What are they? It is what we treasure most of all – Russia’s sovereignty, its national interests and territorial integrity. It is also, first of all, the people’s wellbeing and broad opportunities for self-realisation. It is the preservation of the nation, the priority of demographic progress, family and many children in families. And, of course, it is civil peace and interethnic accord, unity and cohesion of our multi-ethnic and multi-religious nation.
These must be the guiding principles regardless of acute political competition, differences in programmes, and ideas regarding the country’s future. These principles, I am sure, are and will always be the unshakable cornerstone principles for United Russia, the party of the majority.
Friends and colleagues, I would like to specially underscore in this regard that a leader is someone who shows an example, leads others, and holds oneself accountable more than others. The status of a ruling party, a party of power, is not in ruling but in serving the people of Russia. The meaning of this service is the future of our citizens, of the children who were born and will be born in Russian families.
Let me wish you success in the work of your congress and to all of you. Thank you very much for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Medvedev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2019, 14:45
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Alexei Gordeyev
The Deputy Prime Minister briefed the President on the year’s results in the agro-industrial complex.
November 23, 2019
19:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Deputy Prime Minister Alexei Gordeyev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, Mr Gordeyev.
Deputy Prime Minister Alexei Gordeyev
: Good evening.
Vladimir Putin: Shall we start with the results of the year?
Alexei Gordeyev: Yes, I would like to brief you.
The agricultural year is nearing completion. I should say this was a good, successful year. Speaking about such indicators as gross yield of all grains, it totalled 120 million tonnes, which is 6 percent more than last year. That includes 75 million tonnes of wheat. It offers us a good export potential and we will be among the world’s leading wheat exporters.
I would like to name the regions that made the greatest contribution: Krasnodar Territory, Rostov Region, Stavropol Territory, and Kursk and Voronezh regions. We had good yields of practically all crops. I can single out just several items: sugar beet – 53 million tonnes, a 25 percent growth and the country’s all-time record. Let me remind you that 20 years ago, 85 percent of sugar in the consumption structure was imported. Today, we are confident sugar exporters.
The potato harvest showed a 9 percent growth, vegetables – 20 percent, and fruit – 15 percent. All that will make it possible to have good stable prices in the consumer market and to speed up import substitution.
I would like to thank you separately with regard to the federal law that was enacted as of October 1 on a 10 percent VAT on fruit. It went through a long discussion but finally fruit will be taxed at the same rate as other foods.
Animal farming. Meat and dairy output has grown by two percent. It is important to stress that our domestic producers have begun to confidently export pork and chicken, and we also see good prospects here.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Gordeyev, was milk marking put off until the middle of next year?
Alexei Gordeyev: Regarding milk, Mr President, we are putting things right, and efficiently at that. Now all the decisions have been adopted and everything that contains natural produce should be on a separate shelf while the products with vegetable fat should be on another shelf for the buyer to see. The Mercury product tracking system began operating to full capacity on November 1. Incidentally, our Belarusian colleagues have also joined it, so we can see the whole chain from the farm to the counter.
Vladimir Putin: Mercury does not see the whole chain.
Alexei Gordeyev: Mr President, I assure you, I can report separately on that, we even uncovered a number of phantom plants that use unidentified raw materials, and we can see it.
Just a few more words about the food processing industry. Production is up 4 percent; there are also some areas here with growth above 10 percent, especially cheese, tinned meat and baby food, which is very important.
We have an indicator regarding exports. You know that we must double exports within six years. We expect $24 billion, which meets the projected figure in the datasheet. And I am sure that we will reach the target as well.
You often ask about state support funds reaching the recipients. I am ready to report on that as well. The state support budget this year will total 318 billion rubles, 20 percent up on last year. Monitoring shows that 99 percent of the funds will reach agricultural producers before the year’s end. I would like to highlight the effective performance of the federal Ministry of Agriculture and regional agro-industrial complex agencies. By the way, not all industries have such a high rate of delivering state support.
We are facing three current challenges. We are aware that we must change the model of insuring harvest loss risks in emergency situations, since unfortunately only 5 percent of crops are now insured. At present, we are working with ministries and Central Bank specialists. We are ready to propose a new model and we will insure around 40–45 percent of areas under crops.
The second challenge is engaging idling agricultural lands. This mainly concerns arable land, of which we have over 30 million hectares. There is also good potential for farming produce. The Prime Minster has instructed the ministries and agencies together with State Duma deputies to draft a targeted programme. We will be ready to report to you on its key points in the first half of next year.
A new state programme launches on January 1. It was your decision made at a meeting in Stavropol Territory. This is a programme of comprehensive development of rural territories. It enjoys great support in the regions today. And it is crucial to note that initiatives from the ground, as they say, are supported here, that is, rural municipalities will present projects, approved by the regions, of comprehensive support for a particular township. I think it is a very important new phase in the agricultural policy.
All these issues will be reviewed at the State Council in December, in line with your decision. The working group is currently drafting a report, and we will present it to you with their proposals.
Vladimir Putin: And who heads the working group?
Alexei Gordeyev: Altai Territory Governor [Viktor Tomenko
]. This is quite appropriate, as Altai Territory is an outstanding example of our agriculture in terms of both the population and the production volumes.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
See also
Trip to Stavropol Territory
October 9, 2018
Topics
Agriculture
Persons
Gordeyev Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 23, 2019, 19:15
Text version