Events
Meeting with Russian and Turkish business representatives
Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan met in the Kremlin with leading members of the Russian and Turkish business communities.
April 8, 2019
17:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
Meeting with members of the Russian and Turkish business communities.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
I am pleased to have the opportunity, together with our friend Mr Erdogan, to meet again with leading members of Russian and Turkish business communities.
Just now, at a meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council, we reviewed in detail current issues relating to relations between Russia and Turkey, including, of course, the dynamic economic cooperation between our countries.
I would like to note that Russia and Turkey are key partners in trade and investment. Last year, bilateral trade increased by 16 percent, reaching $25.5 billion.
We have achieved good results in agriculture. In 2018, trade in this sector was up 7 percent, reaching $3 billion.
Mutual investment stands at about $20 billion.
Today, the Russian Direct Investment Fund will sign an agreement with the Turkish sovereign wealth fund on creating a joint investment platform of $1 billion to be invested in promising sectors of the two countries’ economies.
Russia appreciates that Turkish investors are taking an interest in our market. In recent years, Turkish companies have discovered business opportunities in many regions of Russia, including Vladimir, Penza and Kaluga regions and Krasnodar and Stavropol territories.
There is also potential to develop cooperation with the Republic of Crimea. Vacant niches are being quickly filled there, including by foreign investors.
See also
Russian-Turkish talks
April 8, 2019
Meeting of High-Level Cooperation Council between Russia and Turkey
April 8, 2019
Probably, Turkish companies have invested the bulk of the capital – about $2 billion – in the economy of Tatarstan, primarily at the Alabuga Special Economic Zone, along with the participation of the holding companies Hayat and Coskunoz and the Sisecam Group. Glass, plastics and household chemical manufacturing plants have been established, which are large even by European standards.
Russia and Turkey maintain close cooperation in energy. Flagship projects include the TurkStream pipeline and the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. These projects are being carried out in full conformity with the endorsed plans, and I am confident that both will be put into operation on schedule.
Russian companies like Lukoil and Rosneft have earned a good reputation in the Turkish market. Power Machines is taking part in modernising Turkish hydroelectric power stations. United Engine Corporation is spending quite a bit of money and effort to ensure the reliable operation of the Turkish gas transit infrastructure.
In turn, Turkish builders are active in the Russian market. They have fulfilled about 2,000 contracts with a total value of some $70 billion.
Turkish companies helped build the facilities for the 2014 Olympics in Sochi and the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
The business circles of the two countries have a lot of potential in high-tech, pharmaceuticals, agricultural and transport equipment manufacturing, ship and aircraft construction, as well as the development and launching of space vehicles.
I would like to emphasise that we in Russia are and will be doing everything necessary for foreign companies, including Turkish firms to feel as comfortable and stable in the Russian market as possible, without being subjected to excessive administrative burdens.
Russia is already 31st in the ease of doing business rankings by the World Bank. We moved up several dozen positions in just five years.
All macroeconomic indicators retain positive dynamics in Russia. Last year our GDP increased by 2.3 percent while industrial production growth went up by almost 3 percent. All this allows foreign companies to work steadily and to make long-term plans in Russia.
Hundreds of billions of dollars will be invested in critical economic and social sectors as part of our national programmes. Once implemented, they will open major prospects for foreign, particularly Turkish, businesses.
It is in our interest to create the necessary conditions for your work, and it is in your interest to implement these projects and make a profit from doing so. We will do our best to support you.
The companies you represent have considerable hands-on experience in implementing major joint projects, and, I believe, are interested in building up trade and investment ties.
Therefore, I propose having a detailed and candid discussion of the issues that are of concern to the Turkish and Russian business communities. Of course, it is important for us to hear what you have to say about additional steps that the government should take in order to boost business contacts even further.
I would also like to take this opportunity to invite business people from Turkey, who are always widely represented at the St Petersburg Economic Forum, to take an active part in it this year as well. The forum will be held in St Petersburg on June 6–8.
Thank you for your time, and I am pleased to give the floor to the President of the Republic of Turkey.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): Dear friend, President Putin, ministers and representatives of the Turkish-Russian business forum,
Greetings from the bottom of my heart.
As you are aware, Mr Putin and I co-chaired the 8th meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council today, and I am very pleased to have the opportunity to be here with you now.
I would like our meeting to be effective and useful. I want to thank you for your hospitality on my own behalf and on behalf of all our country’s representatives.
Expanding our dialogue with Russia has been very beneficial for us. Ever since the 1990s, economic and trade relations have become the driver behind Russia-Turkey relations. Today, we have discussed trade, economic and cultural relations, as well as our contacts in all other areas at the delegation level.
In addition, Mr Putin and I have been considering the idea of working together with the business community for a long time now. There is such an opportunity today. This is our way of showing support for the business community.
About 1,300 representatives of our business community are here, strengthening our ties. We will be working together with all our agencies to resolve any problems (first identify them, and then deal with them).
Russia is our third largest trade partner. We have reached $26 billion in mutual trade, but of course, this figure is too small. We are trading in finished products, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, mechanical engineering products – all of those are well represented. But even in these industries, the level of Russian imports into our country is very low.
My dear friend and I have already set a target benchmark of $100 billion, and so we need to find new approaches. Today we talked about this. All of our ministries have already been given the appropriate instructions to increase trade with Russia.
First, we have transport and visa issues. Work is certainly underway on these tracks. We expect that Turkish firms will soon enjoy the terms now provided to third-country firms.
Turkish builders have been establishing a firm presence here since the 1990s. They have implemented as many as 1,961 projects worth $73 billion. Our construction industry plays a major role in the Russian economy. Then there is investment in the Russian economy. Here we expect the Russian media to provide wider support.
In the same way, Russia has invested $10 billion in our country –in petrochemical and other advanced technologies. All this seriously influences the Turkish economy.
We are ready to provide preferential treatment options for Russian businesses. We are not treating your firms as foreign or Russian investors, but regard them as our own, our local firms.
Energy cooperation is among the most important of economic processes. The Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, and the TurkStream and Blue Stream pipelines are strategic items in our long-term plans. Our target by the end of the year is to finish the onshore section of the TurkStream.
It would also be good to convert financial settlements between us to national currencies as soon as possible so we can be protected against foreign exchange market fraud.
We are ready to address issues of providing the necessary benefits, so all we want now is to hear about your problems and to exchange information.
Once again, I would like to thank Mr President and greet everyone with all my heart.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr President.
<…>
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 8, 2019, 17:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting of High-Level Cooperation Council between Russia and Turkey
April 8, 2019
16:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan
chaired the eighth meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council.
The discussion covered various aspects of Russian-Turkish cooperation, including energy, as well as regional and international issues.
Earlier that day, the two leaders held a restricted meeting to consider priority issues of developing bilateral relations.
* * *
8 of 8
The eighth meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey was co-chaired by Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Beginning of the High-Level Cooperation Council meeting between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues and friends,
I am very happy to welcome all of you at the eighth meeting of the Russian-Turkish High-Level Cooperation Council. Mr President and I have just discussed, at the limited attendance meeting and then one-on-one, the priority issues of developing Russian-Turkish relations. We agreed to continue developing our cooperation as an advanced multilateral partnership.
Now I suggest discussing in the same businesslike and constructive spirit with the participation of the government members and business representatives specific areas of cooperation and the implementation of major joint projects, and mapping out guidelines for the further expansion of mutually beneficial contacts.
The current Cooperation Council meeting was preceded by serious interdepartmental and corporate preparations. A host of meetings at all levels were held. Heads of key ministries and departments of the two countries coordinated their positions in the framework of the special mechanisms of political, economic and cultural cooperation that were established at the Cooperation Council.
In particular, the joint strategic planning group members discussed the situation in Syria at a meeting in Antalya. As guarantors of the Astana process, Russia and Turkey continue making energetic, coordinated efforts for the long-term normalisation of the situation in that country. We are coordinating our efforts in the context of stepping up the intra-Syrian political process, particularly with an eye towards forming a constitutional committee as soon as possible.
A regular meeting of the mixed intergovernmental commission took place. It does much to deepen economic ties and boost mutual trade and investment.
Last year, bilateral trade grew by almost 16 percent to over $25 billion. The volume of mutual investment is nearing $20 billion.
I believe that cancelling existing trade restrictions and diversifying the range of products could help expand trade. Launching new joint projects in manufacturing, metallurgy, agriculture and the high-tech sector will promote investment cooperation.
Notably, Russian-Turkish energy cooperation has become truly strategic. Russia is the largest natural gas supplier to Turkey. Last year, 24 billion cubic metres were exported. This covers almost half of the country's needs.
A new gas pipeline, TurkStream, will significantly boost the supply of Russian gas to Turkish consumers when it becomes operational. The deep-water section and Turkey’s coastal section of the pipeline were line up the other day, marking the culmination of a major phase of the construction process.
Next, the construction of the receiving terminal on Turkey’s Black Sea coast has to be completed, so that TurkStream becomes operational before the end of the year, as agreed.
See also
Russian-Turkish talks
April 8, 2019
The construction of the Akkuyu nuclear power plant in Turkey is another key energy project. The first unit is to launch in 2023, to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Turkey. At this stage, there is need for bringing in additional funding and executing appropriate agreements with potential Turkish investors, who are available.
Our countries have major goals in strengthening defence cooperation. First of all, this concerns completing the implementation of the contract for the supply of S400 Triumph anti-aircraft missile systems to Turkey. Also on the agenda are other promising projects related to supplying modern Russian military products to the Republic of Turkey.
The priority seems to be the development of bilateral humanitarian cooperation. The Russian-Turkish Public Forum is actively involved in this area. I am confident that the expansion of cultural exchanges, as well as contacts in education, science and tourism, will be spurred on by the Cross Year of Culture and Tourism of Russia and Turkey, which opens today at a ceremony at the Bolshoi Theatre.
Colleagues, I would like to thank you for your attention, and I am pleased now to give the floor to the President of Turkey. Then we will hear reports from the co-chairs of the joint strategic planning group, the intergovernmental commission and the Public Forum.
Thank you.
Please, Mr President, you have the floor.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): Mr President, my dear friend, members of the Russian delegation,
Please accept my warmest greetings.
I am very happy to be in Moscow to attend the eighth meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council. Thank you for your kind invitation and genuine hospitality.
My friend Mr Putin and I have met repeatedly over the year that has passed since the previous meeting of the Council. Our ministers and other authorised persons also maintained close contact.
Together we have broken ground on the Akkuyu nuclear power plant, and completed construction of the offshore section of the TurkStream gas pipeline. Together we set a new record, having received six million Russian tourists in our country last year.
Our business leaders continue contributing to Russia, and now a large number of our businessmen are in Russia. Our Turkish firm Esta has built a plant for the German automobile company [Mercedes-Benz], which was opened by my dear friend Vladimir five days ago.
This year, we mark the Year of Culture and Tourism; the official opening will take place at the Bolshoi Theatre.
We have had the opportunity to discuss bilateral issues, both regional and international, in a one-on-one meeting, while our ministers talked with their colleagues. Now we must give a general assessment of this day together.
Our major target is to reach the $100 billion mark [in trade]. At the moment, we are only at 26. Therefore, we will make every effort to attain this goal strategically, economically and trade-wise – that is, on all tracks.
I sincerely wish that our meeting benefits both our states.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 8, 2019, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Russian-Turkish talks
Talks between Vladimir Putin and President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is on a working visit to Russia, began at the Kremlin.
April 8, 2019
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
The presidents of Russia and Turkey had an in-depth exchange on the full range of Russian-Turkish relations, including the progress of joint strategic projects in energy, defence and the humanitarian field, and on current regional and international issues.
Signed documents in various fields were exchanged in the presence of the heads of state. An agreement was signed between the Russian Direct Investment Fund and the Turkey Wealth Fund establishing a Russian-Turkish investment fund with 900 million euros in joint reserved capital.
Another two documents relate to mutual understanding on a programme for accelerated patent processing between the respective departments of the two countries, as well as cooperation in the field of standardisation.
Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan
made press statements and took questions from reporters.
* * *
Russia-Turkey talks.
Beginning of Russian-Turkish talks
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
We are pleased to welcome you to Moscow and today we will open the 8th meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council.
We will listen to our colleagues who are responsible for various cooperation tracks. We will discuss bilateral relations and humanitarian contacts and we will meet and talk with representatives of the business community. In the evening, the Russian-Turkish Cross Year of Culture will be launched.
We are witnessing and confirming a good level of development in our relations, with trade growing by 15 percent, its overall volume at $25 billion.
Major projects are being implemented: the Akkuyu power station, which we are to launch by 2023 in accordance with Turkey’s wishes, and the Turkish Stream pipeline with its onshore and offshore legs recently connected.
We are cooperating in many spheres of international relations, including good contacts through the Foreign Ministry, the Defence Ministry, and military technical cooperation.
We have a large set of issues to discuss and address.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome.
4 of 6
With President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): Mr President,
First of all, I would like to note that we are here for the 8th meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council. We will have meetings on political, economic, trade, military and industrial issues. I hope that we will also discuss both regional and international issues.
Today our countries will sign three agreements. We will take another step forward for the future of our countries.
As you noted, Mr President, our mutual trade has grown by 15 percent. You and I have now set a new benchmark for our trade relations: to achieve the $100 billion mark.
First of all, I would also like to mention the Turkish Stream. Indeed, the construction of its offshore section has been completed. The onshore part is being laid as planned. We are to finish the construction of this part on time.
Another important part of our cooperation is jointly continuing the fight against terrorist groups that pose a threat to our region. This is especially true of the steps that we have already taken and will be taking on the Syrian track. I believe that today's meeting of the High-Level Cooperation Council is of great importance in this context.
Undoubtedly, during these meetings contacts between our ministers will also continue throughout the day. We will give an assessment to these contacts and thus complete our meeting today.
(Speaks in Russian.) Thank you.
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 8, 2019, 16:00
Text version