Events
Meeting with Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev, who updated the President on the harvesting campaign and the general situation in agriculture, including in livestock breeding, as well as on state support for agribusinesses, in particular, the allocation of subsidies to farmers.
September 11, 2019
14:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Patrushev.
Let us start with field work.
Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev
: Mr President, the harvesting campaign is underway in nearly all federal districts. We need to gather the harvest on 80 million hectares.
As I have reported before, we plan to harvest some 118 million tonnes of grain this year. Last year the figure was 113.3 million tonnes. This year the grain harvest is larger.
Even more importantly, the harvest of wheat will increase by 3 million tonnes, which is a positive development. We believe that this amount of wheat will be enough for the domestic market as well as for export.
Overall, the harvesting campaign is proceeding as planned. By now, we have threshed grain harvested from some 34 million hectares, gathering nearly 95 million tonnes. And the yield is higher than last year, 29 centners per hectare.
Meeting with Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev.
Next, I would like to mention that the autumn sowing began on August 6. We have completed field work on 5 million hectares out of the planned 17.5 million. I would like to point out that the farmers have the necessary quantity of seeds, including for the autumn sowing.
We have prepared 3.5 million tonnes of seeds, so that we will have the necessary amount by the time it is needed.
We have also started adding mineral fertilisers to the soil. The forecast for this year is comparable to 2018. We have purchased approximately 3 million tonnes, or more precisely 3.1 million tonnes of mineral fertilisers.
Vladimir Putin: What about prices?
Dmitry Patrushev: The prices are good.
They are fluctuating a bit, but this is normal for a market economy, and the farmers are coping with the current prices.
When prices fluctuate more than is justified, we hold talks with producers of mineral fertilisers and farmers to find a balance that suits both sides.
Mr President, I would like to dwell briefly on the livestock-breeding sector. Meat and poultry output reached eight million tonnes in January-July 2019, and we are expecting 15.2 million tonnes before the year is out. This figure is quite substantial, exceeding 2018 levels by two percent.
Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev.
I would like to discuss milk production separately. Since early 2019, we have produced 18.5 million tonnes of milk, and the figure will reach 31 million tonnes by late December.
I would like to note that there have been no sharp milk price fluctuations this year. As a rule, the prices fluctuate considerably between March and August, and these fluctuations reach 25 percent in some regions. Milk prices are going down.
Last year, you instructed us to conduct this work and to control prices, including through market regulation and by introducing the Mercury online veterinary certification system for raw milk, effective since 2018. Today, we are already using this system to certify ready-made dairy products, and we have managed to prevent milk price hikes.
Current milk prices are just over 24 rubles a litre. In principle, this price suits both milk producers and processing companies. In effect, the Mercury system is functioning rather successfully and allows us to regulate milk prices.
Mr President, I would like to brief you on state support and the allocation of subsidies. Under the state programme, there are plans to allocate 307.9 billion rubles to the agro-industrial sector after budgetary adjustments. And we have allocated 118 billion rubles to the Russian regions, as planned.
Today, direct recipients meaning agricultural producers have received 62 percent of the grand total, which is more than last year. Therefore we will transfer the rest in line with the deadlines set.
At the meeting with Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev.
Mr President, I would like to briefly discuss an emergency situation. This subject is highly important. This year, an emergency situation regime was introduced in 16 regions, and we have already compiled damage estimates for 14 regions. We have incurred losses of about 9.5 billion rubles. Accordingly, we will carry out all the necessary procedures.
We are focusing on the situation in the Trans-Baikal Territory and the Irkutsk Region. The Ministry of Agriculture has received 820.9 million rubles from the Reserve Fund, for subsequent disbursement in the Trans-Baikal Territory. The region has received all the funding, and 98 percent of the sum total has been allocated to end recipients and those affected.
A two-stage effort is stipulated for the Irkutsk Region. The first tranche of 179.6 million rubles has already been transferred to the region, and end recipients have received 99.7 percent of the grand total.
The second tranche is larger, totalling 296 million rubles and includes compensations for private farm holdings. End recipients received virtually the entire amount on September 5.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Agriculture
Persons
Patrushev Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2019, 14:50
Text versionEvents
Address to participants of World Tourism Organisation General Assembly 23rd session
September 11, 2019
10:00
Vladimir Putin: Mr Secretary-General, delegates of the General Assembly, ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to greet you, and, first and foremost, to wish you great success in your important work, which is in demand by millions of the planet’s inhabitants. While facilitating the development of tourism, you also help strengthen humanitarian and economic ties between states, while opening new opportunities for communication and friendship between the citizens of different countries.
The session of the General Assembly is being held in Russia for the first time. And it is symbolic that St. Petersburg – a city that people from all over the world aspire to visit – has become its host. St. Petersburg, like the rest of our country, always generously and warmly receives its guests, and it rightfully belongs among the most beautiful and hospitable tourist capitals of the world. Many cultures, eras, genres and art movements have all been historically intertwined here.
Russia has huge tourism potential. The natural beauty of our regions and their cultural diversity are well known. It is important for us to bolster the social and economic returns we get from tourism. These include tax revenues and new jobs, the development of education and entrepreneurship, and the tackling of environmental and infrastructural issues.
More than 125 million foreign tourists visited our country in the last five years. This is the result of our concerted efforts to develop our tourist industry.
And, of course, major international events have played an important role in this regard, such as the Winter Olympics, the FIFA World Cup, the World Festival of Youth and Students as well as student universiades. All of them have been held at the highest level and have left wonderful impressions on our guests of Russia as an open, hospitable, friendly, modern and comfortable country.
We will render state support to this field more effectively in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the tourism market while implementing the most up-to-date services in line with breakthrough technologies of the digital era. Russia is one of the first countries where electronic visas have been implemented; they can be claimed remotely, quickly and without excessive formalities.
We are open to the exchange of interesting ideas and proposals and are both ready and eager to engage in mutually beneficial cooperation. You will definitely feel it here, at the Assembly, during your in-depth dialogues, where delegates, experts and specialists will share their vision of the prospects of the Russian and global tourism industry.
We are counting on your support for Russia’s application to host World Tourism Day in 2022, and for the opening of an International Tourism Centre under the auspices of the World Tourism Organisation.
I wish you fruitful work and all the best.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Tourism
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2019, 10:00
Text version