Events
Main Naval Parade
The Supreme Commander-in-Chief has reviewed the Main Naval Parade in St Petersburg on Russia Navy Day
July 26, 2020
12:00
St Petersburg
12 of 43
The Supreme Commander-in-Chief from a cutter reviewed fleet formations, lined up for the parade in the Kronstadt roadstead.
The President made the rounds of the waters of the Neva River on a presidential cutter and saluted the crews of the Aleksandr Obukhov lead minesweeper, the Serpukhov small-size missile ship, the corvette Boyky, the frigate Admiral of the Fleet Kasatonov and the submarine Sankt Peterburg.
The parade formation included, in particular, the Nakhimovets anti-saboteur patrol ship, the Ivan Pasko landing boat equipped with the small boat Peter the Great on board and honourary guards wearing uniforms from the period of Peter the Great. Closing out the formation were the Alexey Barinov and D-178 landing boats equipped with Katyusha rocket launchers and a T-34 tank aboard, along with the Dimitrovgrad missile boat, and the Mytishchi, Sovetsk, and Veliky Ustyug small missile ships.
Taking part in the parade from the air above St Petersburg were Mi-8 helicopters, Ka-29 naval assault transport helicopters, Ka-27M anti-submarine helicopters, Be-12 and Be-200 amphibious aircraft, Il-38 maritime patrol and anti-submarine warfare aircraft, in addition to Su-30SM, Su-33, MiG-29K fighters, Su-27 fighters and Su-24M tactical bombers.
Earlier, on a boat with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu, Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Navy Nikolai Evmenov and Commander of the Forces of the Western Military District Alexander Zhuravlev Vladimir Putin made the rounds of the parade line of military ships in the Gulf of Finland and the Kronstadt Yard.
Both ships and submarines took part in the parade in Kronstadt, and included, among others, the Vice-Admiral Kulakov destroyer, the Minsk, Pyotr Morgunov, and the Korolyov large landing ships, the Stoyky corvette, the Orel nuclear-powered cruise missile submarine, the Admiral Vladimirsky oceanographic research vessel and the Vasily Bykov patrol ship.
In all, sailors from the Baltic, Northern, Pacific, Black Sea Fleets and the Caspian Flotilla took part in the Main Naval Parade, in addition to more than 40 aircraft and helicopters of maritime aviation, more than 4,000 service members, and 46 ships, boats and submarines.
The President personally congratulated each crew on Russia Navy Day.
* * *
Speech at the Main Naval Parade
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades sailors andcaptains, midshipmen and officers, admirals and generals,
Dear veterans,
Citizens of Russia,
I would like to congratulate you on Navy Day, a day commemorating Russia’s heroic Navy and its unfading glory.
For more than three centuries, the Navy has been guarding the sovereignty of Russia and firmly standing up for its interests.
Today we salute the guardians of maritime frontiers of the Fatherland, the brave heroes at sea – all those whose lives are forever tied to surface and submarine forces, maritime aviation, as well as fearless marines and all those who serve in coastal defence forces, who ensure the combat readiness of our Navy’s units, and, of course, all those who design and build new marine facilities.
Military ships sailing under the legendary St Andrew’s flag and all the Navy’s personnel accomplish the most difficult of objectives with honour. The unique sea-faring soul of each sailor and officer is reflected in their impeccable service to our people and the Fatherland.
We are proud of the outstanding military victories of our great compatriots and their accomplishments, which include the discovery of Antarctica by Russian sailors. This year we will celebrate the 200th anniversary of this globally important event.
Today we pay respect and give recognition to heroes of the Great Patriotic War, to all the generations of fleet commanders and sailors, shipbuilders and pioneers. Thanks to their steadfastness, talent and devotion to the Fatherland, Russia has forever achieved the glory of being a great maritime power. And this historical continuity is indissoluble.
The Russian Navy is made up of ships equipped with high-precision weapons, strategic submarine cruisers and multi-purpose submarines, the newest airplanes and other aircraft, and with unique types of arms and specialized equipment.
The technological level of our Navy’s equipment is constantly growing. This year it will take on forty new vessels and ships of different classes, and just a few days ago, Russia’s three leading shipyards laid the keels of another six open sea vessels.
The Navy’s unique advantages and an increase in its military capabilities will be achieved through the broad implementation of state-of-the-art digital technologies and hypersonic attack systems, the likes of which know no analogues in the world, in addition to unmanned submersible vehicles, all owing to very efficiently utilized defence resources.
And, of course, it is the people who have been the main force of the nation’s Navy.
Not all are cut out for serving in the Navy. One chooses this line of work, answering the call of the heart and with the understanding that such a choice requires courage, discipline, an iron will and the ability to live and work within a close-knit team, and maintain loyalty to traditions, the laws of the Navy’s indestructible brotherhood, which serves to unite sailors from the Baltic, Northern, Pacific, Black Sea fleets and the Caspian Flotilla.
Today, in a unified formation, we are witnessing together both ships from the past and our newest vessels, including our most modern ships, all under the control of brilliant crews for whom loyalty to duty, adherence to maritime foundations and treasuring the memory of their ancestors are sacred vows, just like their love for the sea, their families and for their Fatherland.
I know this for certain: these sailors’ successors – their grandchildren and great-grandchildren, descendants of victorious sailors will never let the Fatherland down, and will be loyal to the covenants of the decorated Pavel Nakhimov, a great Russian admiral, that a sailor must think, first and foremost, about the glory of Russia and the national fleet.
Congratulations. Long live the Navy! Hooray!
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 26, 2020, 12:00
Text version