Events
Ceremony to unveil the Memorial Candle monument dedicated to the residents and defenders of besieged Leningrad
In Jerusalem, Vladimir Putin and Benjamin Netanyahu unveiled the Memorial Candle monument dedicated to the residents and defenders of besieged Leningrad.
January 23, 2020
14:30
Jerusalem
5 of 15
Vladimir Putin and Benjamin Netanyahu unveiled the Memorial Candle monument dedicated to the residents and defenders of besieged Leningrad.
The ceremony was also attended by President of Israel Reuven Rivlin
, Jerusalem Mayor Moshe Lion and St Petersburg Governor Alexander Beglov
.
A joint creation of St Petersburg and Israeli architects, the monument has been erected in Sacher Park in the centre of Jerusalem. A capsule with soil from the Piskaryovskoye Memorial Cemetery in St Petersburg, the largest burial ground for victims of WWII, was placed in the memorial’s foundation.
The idea of the memorial was proposed by war veterans, siege survivors and compatriots living in Israel, and was supported by Jewish associations of Russia and Israel.
* * *
Speech at the ceremony to unveil the monument
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear war veterans, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and spouse, Mr Mayor and spouse, friends,
It is a great honour for me to attend this ceremony held to dedicate a monument to the heroic defenders and residents of Leningrad. We are unveiling this monument ahead of the events that have special significance for our countries and nations.
One of the most dramatic and heroic moments in the history of WWII ended on January 27, 1944: the siege of Leningrad was finally lifted.
Exactly one year later – my colleagues already spoke about this here – on January 27, 1945, the Red Army liberated the prisoners of one of the largest Nazi death camps – Auschwitz. This day is now International Holocaust Remembrance Day.
There are many examples known throughout history of incredible stamina, sacrifice and horrible human tragedies. But it is impossible to compare the siege of Leningrad and the Holocaust with anything else.
The sacred memory of the martyrdom and courage of millions of people, incomprehensible losses, privations and heroism and our common fair anger at what the Nazis did is passed on from one generation to another.
The whole world knows about the siege of Leningrad and the neighbouring villages, and the unparalleled courage of their residents and defenders. But no documents, stories or diaries can describe what the people went through at that time.
My colleagues have just spoken about this. For me these are no mere words, I know this not from hearsay but from what my parents told me because my farther defended his native city at the front lines, and my mother was in the besieged city with a child that died in the winter of 1942 and was buried at the Piskaryovskoye Memorial Cemetery in St Petersburg among hundreds of thousands of other residents.
The enemy’s plan was absolutely cynical: to doom the city’s residents to death by starvation and, to quote a Nazi order, “to raze to the ground by permanent bombing.”
However, the enemy could not execute this order that is fixed in documents. The residents of Leningrad, people of different ethnic origins, did not give up. They did not spare themselves either at the frontline where incessant fighting went on, or in factories that continuously produced ammunition and hardware required by the front.
I have just mentioned hardware and ammunition. I did not know this but while looking through documents several days ago I discovered a fact that shocked me. During the siege, Leningrad residents donated 144 tonnes of blood for the front despite the situation they were in.
Deprived of food, light and heating, they continued working in hospitals and being involved in art, science and education, and by sacrificing themselves, they saved the great city for generations to come. Invincible Leningrad has become a true legend, while the grandeur of the strength of mind of its residents and their faith in victory has become the acme of human dignity.
The monument we have unveiled today is a symbol of our profound common memory. The idea to create it belongs to the devoted members of the Israeli public, war veterans, and our compatriots, and it was created with the support of the authorities of St Petersburg and Jerusalem, with funding provided by benefactors from both countries.
I would like to note with gratitude and appreciation that Israel attaches special importance to preserving the truth about the Soviet Union’s decisive contribution to victory over Nazism. People here, like in Russia, are concerned, alarmed and outraged by attempts to deny the Holocaust, revise results of WWII, and to whitewash murderers and criminals.
This is the second monument that we have jointly unveiled on Israeli soil over recent years (as Mr Prime Minister has just mentioned). The first monument was erected in the city of Netanya and immortalised the memory of the feats of valor committed by Red Army officers and men. An honest and utterly respectful attitude to Soviet soldiers has found a reflection in the displays at the Yad Vashem Memorial to European Jewish Holocaust victims.
We also hold dear the name of the monument that has been unveiled today. Every year, on June 22, the day when the Great Patriotic War began, the Memorial Candle function starts in Russia at four in the morning, with people in all cities and villages lighting candles in a sign of mourning for those who perished in that dreadful war. St Petersburg, formerly Leningrad, is where this tradition came into being in 2009. Now there is a candle of memory in Israel as well, where almost 1,300 survivors of the siege of Leningrad, their descendants and friends live and where people revere their heroes and remember the dead.
Here, like in Russia, people understand the importance of the lessons of WWII and are not allowing the world to forget what national egoism, disunity and connivance at any forms of chauvinism, antisemitism and Russo-phobia can lead to.
Our common duty is to pass this knowledge on to the coming generations, the great grandsons of the victors, while inculcating in them a thankful memory of those who have given us the gift of freedom and proved, at the cost of their lives, the enduring value of peace and justice.
In conclusion, I would like to say just a few more words. A monument is a very good thing; it will remain here for a long time, hopefully for centuries. It can be unveiled in different ways. But the way you did this today… Thank you.
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Persons
Beglov Alexander
Netanyahu Benjamin
Rivlin Reuven
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 23, 2020, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas
Vladimir Putin and President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas held talks in Bethlehem.
January 23, 2020
21:00
Bethlehem
President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas (retranslated): In the name of Allah, the Merciful and the Compassionate, I would like to welcome the esteemed Vladimir Putin, the President of the Russian Federation, my personal friend, and a friend of all Palestinians, who will not miss an opportunity to draw the attention of the international community to the Palestinian issue or to render us comprehensive assistance. We have become very accustomed to this.
Naturally, we attach much importance to the regular exchange of visits at top level – visits to Moscow and your visit to Palestine – to compare notes and exchange views on the issues that are of interest to the Russian Federation and the State of Palestine.
I would like to thank you for your all-round support. I am referring to political, economic and cultural assistance, financial cooperation and aid to Palestine in the area of security.
I would like to thank you for your support and the work that you do in our area, I am referring to the Arab world. We consider this confirmation of the fact that Arab affairs are important to the Russian Federation. Russia is always present in the Arab world and is always working to resolve its problems.
Naturally, we have a number of issues to discuss. I am primarily referring to Israel’s statement on the annexation of Palestinian lands, and the likelihood of an announcement on the second part of “the deal of the century” by Trump. As you know, the Americans have already made public the first part. We must also discuss the holding of parliamentary and presidential elections in the State of Palestine. These are the issues we would like to review.
Mr President, allow us to welcome you to the State of Palestine once again. I hope I will have an opportunity to personally congratulate you on the victory over Nazism in Moscow in May.
Welcome.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very happy to see you.
We meet regularly and are always in contact.
Russian-Palestinian ties have long and deep roots. We maintain relations in the most diverse areas. You have just mentioned them. We are interested in building up our cooperation in the economy and humanitarian areas and, of course, on issues related to an Arab-Israeli settlement. We understand your concerns in this respect.
I am very happy to have this opportunity to hold consultations with you on all of these issues, including, of course, in a broader context, the situation in the region as a whole.
Of course, we are looking forward to seeing you in Moscow in May for the Day of Victory over Nazism.
<…>
Geography
State of Palestine
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Abbas Mahmoud
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 23, 2020, 21:00
Text version