Events
On public sentiment and post-2024 plans (TASS interview)
The 17th part of Vladimir Putin's interview to TASS News Agency has been published.
The 20 Questions with Vladimir Putin project is an interview with the President of Russia on the most topical subjects of social and political life in Russia and the world. Total recording time is 3.5 hours.
March 19, 2020
15:00
5 of 6
Vladimir Putin gave an interview to TASS Russian News Agency.
Andrei Vandenko: And now about what awaits us in 2024. Are you going to be with us forever?
Vladimir Putin: If you want me to. Do you?
Andrei Vandenko: Me personally?
Vladimir Putin: The question is, in what capacity?
Andrei Vandenko: Well, this is what I am talking about. And in what capacity do you see yourself?
Vladimir Putin: I do not know, we will see.
Andrei Vandenko: Well, let us think about it.
Vladimir Putin: I still have a lot of time.
Andrei Vandenko: I cannot get a clear perspective from here. I think you can see more clearly from up there, from your high position. What do you see? What horizons open up?
Vladimir Putin: No, not at all. Do you know where you can see it? You can see it in public sentiment, in the desires of the people.
Andrei Vandenko: But the so-called elites are nervous, Mr Putin, due to this transfer. Some certainty is needed.
Vladimir Putin: I see. I understand it. The elites, yes, they might be nervous.
Andrei Vandenko: Do you like it?
Vladimir Putin: No, I do not. It is a drawback. Such an imbalance is a real drawback. I realize this. However, the people are the primary source of power. And I am not trying to show off. It is very important for me too. It is very important for me to feel, to understand what people want. It is a matter of principle.
Andrei Vandenko: So, if the people ask you to stay…
Vladimir Putin: Well, I will need to think about it. Another question is in what capacity.
Andrei Vandenko: Well, and in what capacity?
Vladimir Putin: Right now, I have no answer.
Andrei Vandenko: You are just not ready to talk about it.
Vladimir Putin: No, I am not. I still have four more years, and right now, I have no answer. But the most important thing is, let me repeat once again, and completely in honest, without trying to show off, the main issue, the matter of principle is the attitude of the vast majority of citizens. It is a matter of trust, of course.
Andrei Vandenko: You have already answered this question. Surely you did not think that it would all last this long?
Vladimir Putin: No. It never crossed my mind. I did not think that I would find myself here. It did not, and it could not occur to me.
Andrei Vandenko: And what about dropping out of the race at some stage?
Vladimir Putin: Well, you know, I feel responsible for what is going on and how, and for what will happen in the future. It…
Andrei Vandenko: Did you know in 2008 that you would be back in 2012?
Vladimir Putin: No, I did not. Well, there was such an option, but, of course, I did not know for sure. But as an option – there was such a possibility.
Andrei Vandenko: As Maxim Galkin jokes: Putin is not a name, it is a post.
Vladimir Putin: As a person holding no office, he can joke as he likes. And his jokes are quite in demand.
Andrei Vandenko: How do you react to the fact that they call you a Tsar?
Vladimir Putin: It is not true to fact. Maybe someone else can be called a Tsar. However, in my case, I do not reign, I work every day. A Tsar is one who just sits there, looks from above and says, ”They will do as I order“, while he himself would just try on a hat and look at himself in the mirror. On the contrary, I work every day.
Andrei Vandenko: What about your sources of information?
Vladimir Putin: People like me, irrespective of the country they live in, have more or less the same sources of information, and they are quite numerous. They include sociological studies, security services’ reports and the media, of course. A very important source is direct – this is very important – direct communication with the people.
Andrei Vandenko: Remember, Muller used to say, ”Nobody can be trusted, but me.“ Whom do you trust?
Vladimir Putin: Me?
Andrei Vandenko: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: You know, frankly speaking…
Andrei Vandenko: Frankly would be best.
Vladimir Putin: Most of all I trust the sentiments of average people. When I communicate with people, when there is direct contact, even briefly, I think I feel the mood of the people. And that feeling has not become less keen, over the years, it is still with me, and that is very important for me indeed. I believe that our people are very sincere. Very sincere, sensitive and frank.
Andrei Vandenko: You know, when a person meets a leader…
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Andrei Vandenko: Especially the President…
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Andrei Vandenko: Would one blurt out all personal problems to him? You have asked me how am I at the beginning. Well, it depends. And the same goes for the ordinary people, it depends. You see?
Vladimir Putin: Not everybody. Some blurt out their problems, some discuss things. Some talk about their misfortunes. But a problem of a certain person can be very indicative of the problems faced by millions.
Andrei Vandenko: Excuse me, but people mind what they say. Here I am, sitting and talking to you, but trying, for many reasons, to watch my mouth, as I do not want to let down my colleagues or to go to sunny Magadan after this interview.
Vladimir Putin: There is a big difference between you and an average citizen of the Russian Federation.
Andrei Vandenko: What kind of difference?
Vladimir Putin: It relates to you, what Vladimir Lenin once said…
Andrei Vandenko: I am going to learn something interesting about myself…
Vladimir Putin: He said about a group of revolutionaries that they were few and terribly far from the people.
Andrei Vandenko: Oh well…
Vladimir Putin: This is about people like you. No offence meant. An ordinary person does not worry about any obligations that he might have to somebody. Ordinary people say what they think, and they think what they say. And they do not bother with how their superiors might react. They just speak their mind. And what they say might be of critical importance as they speak from their heart, speak about what they like and what they do not. I highly value that, it is truly very important to me.
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 19, 2020, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Republic of Crimea Head Sergei Aksyonov
Vladimir Putin met with Head of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov to discuss measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection and the socioeconomic situation in Crimea.
March 19, 2020
11:00
Republic of Crimea
1 of 3
With Republic of Crimea Head Sergei Aksyonov.
Head of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov
: Mr President,
Thanks to your support, the situation is progressing dynamically. I am referring to socioeconomic development. The instructions issued at the January meeting [on the socioeconomic development in Crimea and Sevastopol] have been coordinated and adjusted with the Government and are being implemented.
On April 6, the State Duma will complete the discussion of the draft laws that will enable the regional authorities to sign agreements with only one contractor, which should accelerate our work. Thanks to your instructions, the road-builders should be able to start working already in early April.
At the same time, our main task now is to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection. As per our decision, the state of high alert was declared as of midnight on March 17.
As per your instructions, we have closed the border with Ukraine at midnight on March 18. The number of passengers has decreased tenfold. Of course, we allow all Russian citizens and people with residence permits to enter the country, provided there are no other problems. Foreigners are not allowed to cross the border.
We have organised interaction with the FSB, the Interior Ministry and Rospotrebnadzor. Absolutely all incoming people are inspected. Biological samples are collected from all those who are returning from affected countries.
Absolutely all new arrivals are being monitored. As of now, we are monitoring 182 potentially infected people in Crimea and 10 people have been admitted to hospital. Thankfully, none of them has tested positive so far.
We are working under a comprehensive plan, under which all collected samples are tested at our plague monitoring laboratory. All our medical facilities have the necessary equipment.
Of course, there is a shortage of face masks in the republic, but our medical facilities and the services that are working directly with the people have the masks and protective gear. We have some 900,000 masks and 800,000 more in reserve. We have bought some 11,000 items of disposable protective gear for medical staff.
We have purchased all the necessary medicines. The Government will help us to buy 15 AVL systems this week.
At present, 27 medical facilities have 71 isolation wards with 355 beds ready to receive patients. Our infectious disease hospitals can reserve another 690 beds, and 2,300 beds are available at temporary hospitals. We are receiving all the assistance we need from the Government in this regard.
Speaking about the system of education, remote, online teaching has been introduced at our higher education institutions, Crimean Federal University and Crimean Engineering and Pedagogical University.
School students are going to study for just two more days. The decision was made and approved by the Education Ministry to organise holidays until April 12. Online teaching methods are being coordinated with the Education Ministry.
We would like to thank Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin here: Moscow has been helping us with the methodology, which means the Republic of Crimea is now ready to prevent infection outbreaks.
Of course, Crimea has the biggest number of reservations for the holiday season. On the one hand, it is good for us, but on the other, this means additional security measures and an enormous tourist flow. We can see that over 100,000 tourists have come to Sochi.
The Crimean health resorts are now 50 percent full, but we expect that, considering this situation, people might come here, so we are introducing security measures and holding consultations with hotel managers: special training sessions will be held this week.
We are also developing a complex of measures with the Government to prevent infected people from coming to Crimea and to identify them quickly.
Vladimir Putin: What is the socioeconomic situation like?
Sergei Aksyonov: The situation is developing.
In fact, in line with your instructions both the Russian Government and the Moscow Government have reserved funds for this year, which means that the quality indicator of the urban environment will change, and we are confident that it will be for the better.
This year we will renovate 106 public areas and 76 communal areas: large areas around big residential buildings.
In line with your instructions, 17 billion rubles in total will be allocated for road construction, as well as two subcontractors. This is apart from the national projects with more than three billion rubles additionally, which will allow us to repair over 50 percent of all the roads by 2022. We are focused on working in municipalities.
Of course, today we have problems with people’s incomes, like everywhere across Russia, and the situation is quite serious. We have indicators from the national projects. Today about 17 percent of the population are living below the poverty line, and we must reduce this figure to 8 percent by 2024, although of course, we cannot stop there and must help every person without exception.
As of today, a commission has been established for monitoring food prices. All the supermarkets and shops have reserves of food and medicines for more than two weeks. Food and medicine prices are monitored every day.
Every day we have meetings with the situation centre, because this is an element of the socioeconomic situation. We are also conducting awareness-raising campaigns.
Every day we broadcast the centre’s meetings on television and radio, because we understand that it is important to keep the public informed, first of all so that people are not alarmed and to avoid panic buying at food shops and pharmacies. These sentiments are mostly whipped up artificially.
Mr President, there are still problems, but thank you for these six years: of course, a great deal has been achieved. We understand that there have been mistakes and flaws. Still, the main thing is that the people living in Crimea have confidence in the future thanks to the support we receive from you and all of Russia.
<…>
See also
Meeting on socioeconomic development of Crimea and Sevastopol
January 10, 2020
Topics
Economy and finance
Healthcare
Industry
Regions
1 more
Persons
Aksyonov Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 19, 2020, 11:00
Text version