    Events Conversation with workers at Zaliv Shipyard   After the keel-laying ceremony
for new Navy warships, Vladimir Putin talked to the workers at the Zaliv Shipyard
and answered their questions.    July 20, 2020  14:20  Kerch                                                                         2 of 6 Conversation with workers at Zaliv Shipyard.        President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Congratulations on this event.Alisa Shmelyova, metrology engineer: Mr President, I would like to thank you for your contribution to the development of our native Crimea, for the trust you have
shown for our plant. And in turn, let me ask you some questions.Vladimir Putin:
Okay.Alisa Shmelyova: What state measures are planned to support civil shipbuilding,
including Crimean enterprises?Vladimir Putin:
Was it your director who suggested this question? (Laughter).Actually, our plan to support
shipbuilding has been developed for some time, and is being implemented pretty efficiently.
First, it includes subsidies for interest rates on loans and lease contracts. I may be mistaken, but this year, some 3.8 billion rubles have been allocated for this, and the same amount is planned for 2021 and 2022. This support will
continue.Second, concessional lease
contracts. Here, 27 billion rubles have been allocated and spent. In 2021, 5
billion will be provided, and in 2022 the state’s contribution to the United
Shipbuilding Corporation will be another 5 billion. Another support measure is payments
from the so-called scrappage grant. When a ship owner decommissions an old ship,
they receive a certain payment. We have already spent some 1 billion rubles to that end; 500 million will be allocated this year and the same amount in the next two years.As for Crimea, this year we will
offer a special support measure. This is because expenses here are higher than
those at other Russian shipyards. We decided to subsidise 30 percent of the ship’s
cost for those owners who place orders with Crimean Shipyards for their next
vessels, including small and medium sized ships, as well as vessels for the fishing fleet.This is not all; the Government is
constantly thinking about what else would be helpful. We will continue doing
so.Alisa Shmelyova: Thank you.Konstantin Fokin, ship cutter, special structures and devices shop: Mr President, it cannot go
unmentioned that a keel-laying ceremony for ships of this size is a real
red-letter day for our shipyard. We have not seen anything like this since the disintegration
of the USSR. Vladimir Putin: Your director tells me this is the tenth
ship. Zaliv Shipyard General Director Igor Obrubov: We have laid the keel for the tenth ship in our shipyard’s new history. Konstantin Fokin: Does the government have plans to continue building these ships? Vladimir Putin:
You know, these are the first ships based on an upgraded design. We have,
therefore, envisaged a programme for additional design work; we will be
studying their performance. So, yes, we are planning to do this – following practical trials.  They are good and modern ships. We are also
thinking – I do not know whether the minister can hear me now out there in St
Petersburg – we have also planned some minor changes in order to use them in other roles. Practically the same thing, but for other purposes. I will not
expand on that now. Konstantin Fokin: Thank you, Mr President. Yury Kulinkov, ship fitter, mechanical adjustment shop: Mr President, a lot of investment
will be needed to rebuild the production capacity destroyed in the Ukrainian
period. Vladimir Putin:
It was not exactly destroyed, it was just not developed. When we had normal
relations, I talked to our colleagues, including those in Ukraine’s government;
I talked at length with the last prime minister, when he was in office. I asked:
“What are you doing? Why are you draining money from Crimea?” He replied: “We
have no choice. Crimea is generating at least something; we have to take more from
them than we give in exchange to support other regions in Ukraine.” They were
forced to do this, not because they were working against Crimea on purpose.
They just had to do that because of the difficult economic situation. Everything
was gradually falling into decay, that is true, but this was not done on purpose. Yury Kulinkov: Will the state support Crimea’s
privately-owned defence industry companies?Vladimir Putin:
Clearly, we are trying to load the defence industry with work. I am not sure I can
come up with exact numbers for every company now, but the defence order in Crimea is quite large, in general. With regard to our general policy to support
this industry, we are doing it as part of the state programme for expanding the defence industry. We developed this programme some time ago in order to give a timely start to re-equipping the army and the navy with new weapons systems. To produce it, we need modern, high-quality and world-class equipment. We started
this work 10 years ago. In general, I must say that we started this at a good
time, because we have managed to largely re-equip the production base. To reiterate, this is being done as part of the state programme to re-equip the defence
industry.True, private companies are facing
issues. What are these issues about? If the state invests a certain amount of money
in a private enterprise, then, of course, it wants to have a piece of interest
in that company, otherwise it is just a gift from the state to a private owner.Some owners are fine with that arrangement
and take the deal in order to improve their company’s capacity. Occasionally,
they even go as far as letting the state have the controlling interest. This is
just a requirement.There is another means of supporting
private companies and another tool – the Industrial Development Fund which issues
loans at a very low interest rate, just 1 percent. Of course, we are constantly
thinking about other ways to provide support. We will definitely load Crimea's companies
with state orders.Yury Kulinkov:
Thank you.Sergey Vodnev, testing department control foreman: Mr President, many countries,
including our neighbours in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, not to mention the United States, are seeing a soaring coronavirus caseload. What about our
country and what do you think about the fact that the Immortal Regiment march
has been postponed to a later date?Vladimir Putin:
As you are aware, we have postponed the Victory Parade and the vote on amendments to the Constitution as well. We did this on purpose, because these
things cannot be held at any cost, at the cost of our people’s health and lives.Indeed, we are seeing a surge in the epidemic in many other countries. It is true. Here is the situation in our
country. Basically, what I will say is known, but I will just revisit certain
points.We are not the world’s largest
country in terms of population. China, for instance, has 1.5 billion people and India 1.3 billion people, and there are other countries with larger population
numbers. We have 146 million people in our country, which makes Russia the largest European country in population, not to mention area, which is the world’s
largest, but Europe’s largest in terms of population.So, if you look at the average numbers
globally and in Europe, you will see that the number of cases per population in our country is approximately the same as elsewhere and stands at 0.5 percent of the population. The number of new cases is decreasing and the number of recovered patients is increasing. The number of those who have recovered is
significantly greater than the number of those who fell ill.Finally, mortality. This is one of the key performance indicators of the healthcare system and the state as such.
You can think what you want about the statistics, but numbers are still numbers.
In countries with well-developed healthcare systems like the rich European
countries, the mortality rate is 8, 10, 11, 13, in some countries over 15
percent. Belgium and Great Britain are over 15 percent. We have a 1.5 percent
mortality rate. Again, you can think what you want about the statistics, trust it
or not, but, clearly, the mortality rate in Russia is lower by an order of magnitude.Why is that? First, because of the healthcare system’s flexibility, the level of specialist training and the state’s
ability to mobilise its resources when needed. There are other factors as well,
but this is what we actually have.In general, as I mentioned earlier,
we are dealing with this challenging chapter in our life with minimal losses.
But they still exist, and the threat remains.We organised several large events.
As I said, the Victory Parade was postponed and held later. Then there was the nationwide
vote on the constitutional amendments. Neither of these resulted in new
outbreaks. On the contrary, the situation is improving day by day. Why? Because
we strictly complied with the requirements of the sanitary doctors, our
scientists, experts and, by the way, the World Health Organisation that suggests
that the scope of testing be increased. We have already tested 23.5 million
people, which allows us to identify patients and promptly take them from the population for treatment, self-isolation and so on.But why did major events like the Victory Parade and the vote not result in more cases? As for the Victory
Parade, you probably know that military personnel are already in literal
isolation living in barracks or similar conditions. If a person got sick, he or she was immediately removed. Continuous testing and treatment was available. The military medicine demonstrated great performance.As far as the vote is concerned, all
sanitary requirements were also observed, including new modern voting systems,
personal protection equipment and social distancing.Regarding the Immortal Regiment,
this is no case for social distancing.Sergey Vodnev:
Of course.Vladimir Putin: The whole purpose of the event is for the Russian nation to demonstrate
its unity and remembrance of our fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers.
What does this imply? It implies that people march…Remark: Side
by side.Vladimir Putin: Exactly.I proposed moving the Immortal
Regiment to Navy Day, which is another big upcoming holiday. We will continue
to consult with experts and scientists until the last minute. I even arranged
my schedule to make it possible to attend the parade in St Petersburg and fly
back to march alongside people on Red Square. But the experts and doctors did
not recommend holding the march. So, as much as we want it to happen,
we will have to postpone the march until next year. It will be a grand,
beautiful and powerful event. We will make it beautiful the way we can and the way we have always done it. Sergey Vodnev:
Thank you.Alisa Shmelyova: Mr President, can we take a picture with you? Vladimir
Putin: With pleasure.      See also     Vladimir Putin attends keel-laying ceremony for the Navy's new warships July 20, 2020             Geography Republic of Crimea      Topics  Armed Forces    Industry    Regions                          Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    July 20, 2020, 14:20  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/63691    Text version        NaN /  Events
Conversation with Mikhail Degtyarev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Mikhail Degtyarev via videoconference.
July 20, 2020
15:00
Kerch
2 of 2
Mikhail Degtyarev appointed Acting Governor of the Khabarovsk Territory by Presidential Executive Order.
During the meeting, the President informed Mikhail Degtyarev about his decision to appoint him Acting Governor of the Khabarovsk Territory.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Degtyarev.
Mikhail Degtyarev: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Degtyarev, you are a relatively young man, but you have had good training. You have a good education and extensive experience on the political stage. You are an engineer by education, but you also have many years of experience of successful public work.
Mr Degtyarev, we have a very responsible and important job for you, which the country needs very much. I am referring to a region I would like you to head, the Khabarovsk Territory.
Mr Degtyarev, this means working, in the direct meaning of the word, in the best interests of the people. The Khabarovsk Territory is one of the largest regions in Russia, with huge industrial potential, a unique culture and very talented and active people. Of course, you will have to work to full capacity, making use of all your skills, abilities and talents.
The question is, are you up to this job?
Mikhail Degtyarev: Mr President, I am ready. Thank you for placing your trust in me. I am ready to fly to the Khabarovsk Territory without any delay.
Our agenda includes issues with the sustainable operation of the Khabarovsk Territory’s government, preparations for the heating season, and containing the spread of the coronavirus infection.
I looked through the reference materials and saw that today – even now – available hospital beds do not fully meet the standards. There is a shortage of lung ventilators – more than a hundred pieces of equipment are needed. The Khabarovsk Territory tops the list in the number of new infections and hospitalised patients in the Far Eastern Federal District.
In this regard, if confidence has been placed in me to lead the Khabarovsk Territory, I would like to ask you something – please instruct the Government of the Russian Federation to support the Government of the Khabarovsk Territory through this difficult period, including in matters of adjusting national projects in three areas – economic growth, human capital, and a comfortable environment.
Furthermore, we are now in the phase of drafting the federal and regional budgets for 2021–2023. Allow me to analyse the situation and report to you in a month on the state of affairs in the Khabarovsk Territory.
Vladimir Putin: We will do this; right, this is the way to do it. Of course, you need to take a closer look at things, the economy you will be managing. And formulate your proposals, your requests to the federal centre – me and to the Government of the Russian Federation. We have helped the Khabarovsk people before, helped the Khabarovsk Territory, and we will do so again, in the future, without doubt.
I know there are many problems and they need to be addressed. The heating season, as you said, is moving closer. And you also need to deal with current affairs.
But of course, we need to look to the future, to think long term, remember our strategic plans for the development of this huge and very important region in Russia.
I wish you good luck. I will see you later.
Mikhail Degtyarev: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Good luck!
See also
Mikhail Degtyarev appointed Acting Governor of the Khabarovsk Territory
July 20, 2020
Geography
Khabarovsk Territory
Topics
Regions
Persons
Degtyarev Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 20, 2020, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin attends keel-laying ceremony for the Navy's new warships
During his working trip to Crimea, the President visited the Zaliv shipyard in Kerch.
July 20, 2020
14:10
Kerch
4 of 7
Keel-laying ceremony for the Navy's new warships.
Together with Zaliv Director General Igor Obrubov, the President installed a keel board for the Ivan Rogov general purpose assault ship.
Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov, Deputy Defence Minister Alexei Krivoruchko, Commander-in-Chief of the Navy Nikolai Yevmenov likewise did the same for the ship Mitrofan Moskalenko.
The head of state watched, via videoconference, the keel-laying event for the Voronezh and Vladivostok nuclear submarines in Severodvinsk, as well as the Admiral Yumashev and Admiral Spiridonov frigates in St Petersburg. General Director of PO Sevmash Mikhail Budnichenko and Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov delivered reports.
Following the ceremony, Vladimir Putin spoke with the shipyard workers.
* * *
Remarks at the keel-laying ceremony for new warships
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Comrades,
I would like to congratulate you and your colleagues from St Petersburg and Severodvinsk on this grand event, a very important and significant step in the development of the Navy.
Today, the keel-laying of six new open-ocean vessels is in process at three leading shipyards in Russia simultaneously. Here in Kerch, we have two general purpose assault ships, at Severnaya Verf in St Petersburg, two frigates, and at Sevmash in Severodvinsk, two nuclear cruiser submarines.
Traditionally, the new generation assault ships and frigates will bear the names of our illustrious military leaders and naval commanders who have done a lot to strengthen the Russian Navy. I am referring to the Ivan Rogov, Mitrofan Moskalenko, Admiral Yumashev and Admiral Spiridonov. The two nuclear submarines have been named after two cities of military glory, Voronezh and Vladivostok.
The new ships will have advanced weapons, controls and communication systems. They will significantly strengthen the combat potential of the Navy and enhance its strategic capabilities.
The Navy has always reliably defended Russia’s borders. Today, it continues to play a critically important role in ensuring Russia’s security, dependably defends our national interests, and helps maintain a strategic balance and stability worldwide.
About 60 Russian ships and support vessels are patrolling the World Ocean’s key areas with almost half of them patrolling remote sea areas. Long sea voyages and the show of the Russian flag have been held on an ongoing basis lately.
Russia has one of the world’s longest coastlines and access to three oceans, so we will continue to focus on a modern and combat-ready Navy, and to build ships fitted out with advanced weapons and equipment.
I would like to note that the Navy has received over 200 ships, motor boats and vessels of various classes over the past eight years. It is important to continue to consistently implement the State Armament Programme to make sure that the share of modern ships in the Navy exceeds 70 percent by 2027.
This is a major assignment for the Russian shipbuilders. The industry’s enterprises already have orders for years to come. We must make the most of your strong scientific, industrial and human potential to create advanced ships of all types.
Please accept my heartfelt thanks to you and your colleagues for your honest work. We are proud of the professionalism and skills of the people who are building our Navy in Kerch, Severodvinsk, St Petersburg, Kaliningrad, Bolshoi Kamen, Vladivostok, Nizhny Novgorod, Zelenodolsk and Astrakhan, as well as other enterprises.
Thanks to you – shipbuilders and Navy sailors ̶ our country is among the world's leading maritime powers, and Russian ships are effectively dealing with a wide variety of assignments. This is the way it should be and will always be.
I am confident that your work teams will complete the assignments with high quality and on time.
I wish you every success, and I also wish dignified service for the benefit of Russia to the future crews of the ships that you are starting to build.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Once again, I congratulate you on today's keel-laying ceremony and wish you every success.
Thank you.
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 20, 2020, 14:10
Text version