Events
On Russia Day the President presented Hero of Labour medals
The Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation gold medals were presented in Victory Park on Poklonnaya Gora in Moscow. The national flag of the Russian Federation was hoisted prior to the ceremony to mark the national holiday of Russia Day.
June 12, 2020
13:30
Moscow
8 of 13
At the ceremony for presenting the Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation gold medals.
The title of the Hero of Labour was instituted in 2013. It is conferred for outstanding results in government, public and economic activity, a contribution to the socioeconomic development of the country including the development of industry, agriculture, transport, construction, science, culture, education, healthcare and other areas.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
This year the Hero of Labour gold medals are being presented on a holiday, Russia Day. Before starting the ceremony, I would like to extend greetings on this important holiday to all the country’s citizens and our compatriots abroad, all those who see an intimate meaning in this day.
For each of us, Motherland means family and our parents’ home, our native land, from Kaliningrad to Kamchatka and the Kuril Islands, from the northern Arctic seas to Sevastopol and Crimea. Our millennia-long history has been made on these endless expanses, filled with pages of great glory and pride, the unsurpassed courage of our ancestors, their faith in and love of the Fatherland.
The clear innermost feeling of Motherland has always, at all times, helped our people to endure all tribulations, to persevere and preserve themselves in harsh ordeals, and respond to any challenges.
Here, on Poklonnaya Gora we recall heroes who defended the Fatherland, its freedom and independence, and this memory is common and sacred for all generations, for the whole multi-ethnic people of Russia. We have a common historical code and moral foundations. Respect for the working person and the defender of the Fatherland, traditions and culture, preservation of the memory of our ancestors, respect for one’s parents and family, love for our land and the inviolability of our borders have an unconditional value for us.
These are the foundations that determine the character and destiny of our people, the progress of the country both today and in future. It is therefore natural that suggestions were voiced that these fundamental and cornerstone principles be included in the Russian Constitution. I am sure that the absolute majority of our citizens share and support this position.
Friends,
Love for the Motherland and our love for the mother that gave us life are feelings of the same order. They empower us and give us hope, inspire us to feats of arms and great labour achievements. It has always been like that, in all historical eras.
Today on Russia Day, we honour the Heroes of Labour of the Russian Federation.
Friends, you are completely immersed in your calling, the cause of your choice, to achieve outstanding results in industry, sport, healthcare and culture. You contribute to the sustainable development of our country with your achievements.
Leonid Belykh has been head of the Ulan-Ude Aviation Plant, which manufactures the legendary Mi helicopters, for over two decades. All your life has been connected with the plant – you have passed all the way from electrician to director, in the difficult 1990s you did much to maintain production, retain unique employees and preserve technologies. It could have gone differently.
Currently the enterprise is steadily building up its capacity and is among the leaders of the Russian aircraft industry. It manufactures new models of civilian and military helicopters.
Unfortunately, outstanding coach and founder of the famous Krasnoyarsk school of wrestling Dmitry Mindiashvili was unable to be in Moscow today. The Hero of Labour medal will be presented to him later.
Dmitry Mindiashvili has trained dozens of prominent athletes. Among his students are winners of the most prestigious championships including the Olympics. He teaches athletes not only to fight and win but also to be worthy, honest, noble people who are always ready to come to the rescue.
The notable labour victories and exploits by Alexander Motorin, a steel worker with truly priceless professional experience, are inextricably linked with the famous Magnitka steelworks. The history of this industrial giant was written by exactly this sort of specialists – well-trained, enthusiastic, true masters.
You have given the country dozens of millions of tonnes of important strategic produce throughout the many years of your impeccable work. Having mastered the secrets of metal smelting, you share them with young people and take up industrial tasks of tremendous complexity.
Such generous, industrious and open people are the real pillar and pride of Russia. And in times of trouble we see it particularly vividly when life puts everything in its right place and clearly delineates true values from made-up, imaginary standards.
The contemporary world has re-interpreted many things as it encountered new challenges and threats. In fact, we realised anew and discovered for ourselves the lofty mission of doctors, nurses, and the staff at hospitals, outpatient clinics and emergency medical service stations. We admire their service, courage, boundless self-sacrifice. Of course, many of them deserve the highest awards.
Doctor Roshal also dedicated himself completely to saving lives and helping children. Leonid Roshal has rightly earned the name of “hands of gold” and “the heart” of our medicine.
(Addressing Leonid Roshal.) Mr Roshal, you are always where things are tough (we are know that), where there is a need for the highest qualifications and sometimes courage (we also remember that), an unconventional approach and empathy, and you charge everyone around you with good energy.
Your direct and active involvement in organising emergency surgery and trauma care to children, your contribution to the progress of pediatric science and the children’s health protection system deserve the highest praise.
I would like to say special words to Yury Solomin. You have been artistic director of the State Academic Maly Theatre for over thirty years, preserving and enhancing its traditions and educating young people.
You are an accomplished producer and a brilliant actor. You performed dozens of truly eminent and memorable parts in theatre and film, roles that conquer with their depth and unlimited charm. The Adjutant of His Excellency, TASS is Authorised to Declare, The Siege, An Ordinary Miracle, these films with your participation are popular and sincerely loved by many generations of spectators.
I would like to heartily congratulate all our Heroes.
Now let us proceed with the ceremony.
Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I would like to congratulate you once again on receiving the honorary title of the Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation; thank you for your honourable labour, and I wish you good health and new achievements so that your life’s work continues through the endeavours and talents of your followers and protégés, so that you further inspire Russian citizens to positive acts and real accomplishments.
This is necessary and important for our country because Russia’s wellbeing and prosperity undoubtedly depend on personal labour in its broadest sense – on doctors, teachers and cultural figures, athletes, coaches, workers and farmers, engineers, production managers, on everyone in the country who sets high constructive goals for themselves.
This is why it is so important that each person have every opportunity for self-attainment, so that they can work and receive a worthy and fair wage while their rights are reliably protected. Such attention to and special support for people who work hard is a precondition for progress in all areas – in the economy and social sphere, in technological development, culture and sport.
I am confident that we will see such achievements, and they will multiply because we are a united multi-ethnic people.
The national flag of Russia is a symbol of our unity, sovereignty and independence. It embodies our victories, our forward-looking commitment. Today, the national flag of the Russian Federation was ceremoniously hoisted here on Poklonnaya Gora on Russia Day.
Once again, I congratulate the citizens of our country as well as our compatriots abroad on this holiday. And I congratulate you again, dear friends, on your well-deserved awards.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
See also
Executive Order On Awarding the Hero of Labour Title
April 27, 2020
Hero of Labour title established
March 29, 2013
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 12, 2020, 13:30
Text version