Events
Sanctions as an economic booster (interview to TASS)
The 14th part of Vladimir Putin's interview to TASS News Agency has been published.
The 20 Questions with Vladimir Putin project is an interview with the President of Russia on the most topical subjects of social and political life in Russia and the world. Total recording time is 3.5 hours.
March 16, 2020
15:00
Sanctions as an economic booster (interview to TASS)
Andrei Vandenko: We’ve been hit with sanctions because of Ukraine.
Vladimir Putin: To hell with those sanctions. According to various estimates, we have lost around 50 billion but we have earned the same amount.
Andrei Vandenko: That’s quite a bit.
Vladimir Putin: Quite a bit, but it made us use our brains. We spent quite a lot of money on the so-called ‘import substitution’ programme and started to produce such items and technologies that we did not have before or simply forgot about them and lost them. We recreated all of this. And we are undoubtedly benefiting from it. It diversifies our economy. In fact, it helps us address our overriding priority.
Andrei Vandenko: But counter-sanctions give the impression that we were deliberately hurting ourselves.
Vladimir Putin: Nonsense. Counter-sanctions helped us boost the agroindustry. They freed up our domestic market.
In our country, if we look at the past years from 2000s and onwards, everyone here spoke about the agroindustry as if it was a black hole, surely you do remember. Where is it now? I don't even remember how far ahead agricultural production has leaped. I think 2.6-fold.
We have always been a grain importer but now we are the world’s top wheat exporter. We have even outperformed the United States, Canada and Australia. They produce more but also consume more. We supply more to the market.
5 of 6
Vladimir Putin gave an interview to TASS Russian News Agency.
We started to produce enough to meet our basic food needs: dairy, poultry, pork, all staples. We need to work more on vegetables and beef. And we are doing it. Nobody could have imagined that our export was going to total $25 billion last year. This year it will be $24 [billion], I think. Our arms sales are only $15 billion. Nobody would have ever thought that we would become such a major exporter. And we will increase this volume.
In this sense – and from the point of view of developing high-tech productions and in terms of agriculture development, import substitution – is it god or bad? On the one hand, it’s good, it has served us well.
Another thing is bad – it’s bad that this distorts the entire global and European economic space. This is what’s bad. Competition should be natural without any external restrictions.
But the fact is our partners also lose approximately the same. Europe has lost roughly the same, according to their own estimates. They’ve been losing even more sensitive things.
Andrei Vandenko: But there are 40 countries in Europe, and we are one country.
Vladimir Putin: You see, they are losing jobs. Right now, we have the lowest level of unemployment in history. In this sense we lost nothing. And they are losing jobs because imports have nosedived as a result of a wide range of circumstances, including sanctions.
See also
On current corporation heads and 90s oligarchs (TASS interview)
March 13, 2020
Topics
Economy and finance
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 16, 2020, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with VTB Bank CEO Andrei Kostin
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President and Chairman of the VTB Bank Management Board Andrei Kostin. The discussion focused on VTB Bank’s performance in 2019 and the financial group’s current operations.
March 16, 2020
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With President and Chairman of the VTB Bank Management Board Andrei Kostin
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kostin, your bank is one of the leading ones in the country. I have looked through the reference notes. Your assets are worth 15.5 trillion.
President and Chairman of VTB Bank Management Board Andrei Kostin
: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: You have 14 million customers. This is impressive. How was the bank’s performance in 2019?
Andrei Kostin: Mr President, our 2019 performance was quite good. If we look, first of all, at the financial indicators, the bank’s net profits under International Accounting Standards increased by ten percent, exceeding the 200-billion mark for the first time in our 30-year history (our bank will be 30 years old in October) and totalled 201 billion rubles. Of course, this had a positive effect on the bank’s capitalisation: the stock value and the bank’s capitalisation soared by 36 percent in 12 months.
The corporate dividends policy contributes to this. In 2020, we plan to pay 50 percent of our net profits as dividends. The state which holds a 61 percent stake is our main stockholder.
So, our performance is quite good, but we believe that our bank still has huge potential. In early 2020, we approved an ambitious 600 Days programme. There are plans to completely transform our bank using an entirely new digital platform over a 20-month period. This, of course, will make our customers even more comfortable and will provide them with many new digital products.
Last but not the least, we believe that these measures will help boost corporate profits by 50 percent, to 300 billion in the next three years. To my mind, this will become a very good indicator of the bank’s performance.
Vladimir Putin: And how is your mortgage programme developing?
Andrei Kostin: This is one of our main tools. In 2019, we expanded our mortgage portfolio by 20 percent. Today, VTB Bank issues 25 percent of all mortgages nationwide, and the volume of our mortgage programme has reached 1.8 trillion rubles.
<…>
Topics
Banks
Persons
Kostin Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 16, 2020, 14:30
Text version