Events
Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board meeting
Vladimir Putin chaired a videoconference meeting of the Supervisory Board of the autonomous non-profit Agency for Strategic Initiatives.
July 9, 2020
16:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Supervisory Board meeting of the autonomous non-profit organisation Agency for Strategic Initiatives to Promote New Projects.
Taking part in the meeting were members of the ASI Supervisory Board, including First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov and Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin, as well as Economic Development Minister Maxim Reshetnikov, directors of some ASI initiatives, plus representatives of several companies.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we are holding a regular meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives. But first of all I would like to thank you once again for your joint work, for your efforts aimed at promoting landmark projects, which are yielding practical results and are encouraging the creation of domestic technology, the development of advanced forms of education and personnel training, the promotion of best practices in terms of conditions for doing business, as well as a modern living environment in cities and towns.
We established the agency almost 10 years ago. Over the first nine years, you have greatly expanded your competencies and potential, which, as I would like to point out, has helped us to rapidly launch the initiatives which the people need at this difficult period of the epidemic, providing substantial and considerable assistance to families, in particular, by organising online learning for children, which we have discussed several times, and by providing help to our senior citizens in a modern format. I would like to repeat that you have succeeded in many ways.
I have said this many times and I would like to note again – nine years ago, it was the right decision to establish the Agency for Strategic Initiatives. Above all, because you always prioritise people’s demands and lift barriers to substantive ideas as well as business and social initiatives. You are always open to cooperation and joint work. Naturally, the number of partners you have is constantly growing all across Russia; their geography is wide. They include noncommercial and public organisations, universities, colleges, schools, small and medium-sized businesses and technological entrepreneurs, as well as, importantly, management teams in municipalities, regions, federal ministries and agencies.
Incidentally, more and more experts who used to be involved in the agency’s activities are now working at various levels of government: there are deputy ministers and governors who worked at the agency for several years. Of course, they share your vision and are now ready to implement your proposals and initiatives. This means that the agency’s team is getting stronger, more professional and united.
I hope that in the future you will continue to act just as effectively together in the key spheres of the national agenda. In this sense, I would like to hear about your prospective plans and new projects. We always discuss this at meetings like today’s. I also suggest focusing on issues related to creating a favourable business environment. You have been working on this for almost nine years.
At your initiative, the national ranking of the investment climate in the Russian regions is issued annually. It is true that it helps assess business conditions based on the opinion of entrepreneurs.
I would like to ask you to elaborate on the regions that showed good results and trends, as well as to outline the systemic barriers that are still holding down entrepreneurs’ work.
Let us get down to work.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Well, colleagues, let us review today’s discussion. First of all, I would like to thank you, my friends, members of the Supervisory Board, for working closely with the ASI, for devoting time and effort, even some financial help and the exchange of ideas. This is very important. Thank you for your evaluations of ASI work.
We have also discussed in detail the plans for the agency that are intertwined, which is very important, with the key items on the national development agenda.
I would like to emphasise that everything we are doing, all the major goals of our state policy, as I have said many times, and as we see our goals, all is being done for the sake of the people. These plans are aimed at creating opportunities for healthcare, honest work, education and the raising of children. All of these things have been mentioned today. The same goals were pursued during the difficult months of countering the epidemic. As I mentioned, the ASI made a tangible contribution to this.
The main, fundamental principles of our policy have been reflected in the updated text of the Constitution of Russia. Our colleagues have mentioned this today as well. It is important to develop these norms of the Fundamental Law in every region of the Federation, every city and every residential location. Incidentally, we have already started implementing many ideas fixed in the constitutional amendments. In effect, we have merely fixed in the Constitution what life itself has required. It is important to make sure that people feel and see real changes for the better, and this largely depends on the effective, smooth performance of all regions of the Federation.
In this context, I would like to highlight that the Agency for Strategic Initiatives has always set high, modern standards for regional management teams. It has disseminated the experience of leaders, helped the regions to learn new ideas and introduce advanced practices and methods. Colleagues, your projects must continue serving as a serious impetus for positive regional change, including the improvement of the business environment.
We have always discussed the results of the investment climate national rating. This is extremely important. I would like to congratulate the winners once again. It is great that new leaders are emerging around us here. I would also like to particularly thank the regions that have shown high positive dynamics. We have spoken about Bashkiria, Nizhny Novgorod Region and Trans-Baikal Territory, which have made a real breakthrough in the investment rating in a short time.
To reiterate, the most important thing now is to ramp up our efforts and improve the business environment. The situation is challenging, but we will succeed if we do a good job improving the business environment. In order to adopt good goal-oriented decisions, we need to have a clear understanding of the range of limitations and difficulties that specific companies, entrepreneurs and self-employed citizens are facing. It is important to see, sense and show the current and remaining problems.
In a word, the National Ratings should become a more sensitive barometer of business needs. Therefore, of course, I agree that it is necessary to update the ratings methodology, as well as the standards and requirements for the regional teams, including areas such as training personnel, the availability of financial support and promoting exports. It is imperative to accurately assess the state of the infrastructure, and the federal departments’ and oversight services’ contribution to improving the business environment on the ground.
Increased investment in the regional economy should serve as an indicator of business environment quality and entrepreneurs’ level of trust. The process is not the destination – this is what we should strive for. A process is a process. It is about developing tools. What we need is the result – the promotion of small and medium-sized businesses. We must follow the developments – this is what we should strive for. It is important to create new jobs.
Today, we also covered in detail National Technology Initiative projects in promising areas such as artificial intelligence, quantum communications and remote learning.
To reiterate, we will obtain a long-term system-wide effect and ensure a genuine technological breakthrough if advanced solutions increase our companies’ efficiency, open up new employment niches and, importantly, are widely used in everyday life in urban and rural areas.
Everyone, including, and perhaps, primarily, younger people, schoolchildren, university students and young entrepreneurs, should be directly involved in creating and implementing innovations.
I would like to ask the Agency, those involved in the National Technology Initiative, to suggest specific steps on including the technology development agenda in every region, all regional education systems – from schools and technical vocation groups to colleges and universities. Naturally, the development of technology should not sideline adults or experienced and established people who have not yet become a part of today’s world in this respect. They should not be deprived of the prospects offered by technological progress today. On the contrary, in the final count, they should also see new targets for growth and improvement of living standards.
Thus, WorldSkills Russia has the experience of remotely teaching modern, popular professions. Most importantly, it teaches practical skills rather than just theory. I would like to ask the Government to make broader use of retraining course upgrades.
Of course, we are bound to support the new idea of implementing the national social initiative. Obviously, this must be supported. I would like to ask the Agency to work closely with the Government. Mr Belousov is hearing this. I am sure he knows this and has prepared all this together with you today. I would like to ask you, Mr Belousov and all Government members to join in this work. It is necessary to discuss these issues with the regions, the working group of the State Council, experts, as well as with public and non-profit organisations. It is essential to use the experience of the National Business Initiative that was very well promoted by the ASI in the past, when it managed to remove many legal, normative barriers, and take into account the requirements of the business community itself. Indeed, the ASI was the only one to deal with these issues. This is true.
Now it is necessary to take a good look at real-life situations, at the problems encountered by our people, primarily, families with children, the elderly and disabled people. It is necessary to generalise the experience of the regions in improving the performance of schools, hospitals and other social facilities, including best practices on countering the pandemic and our groundwork on introducing the “lean production” project.
To reiterate, the agency’s immediate goal is to create incentives for the regions to make groundbreaking changes in the social environment. To do so, it is imperative to build a modern, properly functioning system for training local management teams and sharing best practices. It is also important to review the available experience and provide information support. It is important for the nation to know where and what is being done and how, and to promote these best and promising practices.
I also consider it important (and I want to emphasise this again) that the regions’ efforts to improve the social sphere should be evaluated by the people. There may be no better way of doing this than canvassing neighbourhoods. It is necessary to create consolidated and integrated ratings of the quality of life in the regions.
I have one more suggestion in this respect. Today, we spoke about promoting young, you might even say, very young entrepreneurs and innovators, steps to support them, including on the part of Russian businesses. I want to say again, this is certainly important. But no less important is where, in which regions young people will be able to bring their plans to fruition. Will they choose to stay in their small homeland and live, work, start families and raise children there?
Of course, when drawing up the quality of life ratings in the regions, I want the Agency to take into account young people’s opinions and what they have to say about the level of education and affordability of housing, the convenience of the urban environment and public spaces, opportunities for starting a business, or creative and technological initiatives. In this regard, the proposal to extend existing experience to the work of municipalities is very important. I fully agree with this proposal.
To reiterate, I suggest testing the mechanisms for assessing the quality of life ratings and the implementation of the National Social Initiative, which we discussed today, in the pilot regions in the coming months. The governors confirmed their willingness to join in this work at today's meeting. I am confident that all governors will participate in this work. We will discuss the first results of introducing new approaches at the end of this year, so that in 2021 we can begin to replicate these practices throughout the country.
Thank you all for the good work. All the best.
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 9, 2020, 16:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, with Chairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova.
July 9, 2020
14:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 2
Meeting with Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Ms Pamfilova.
Chairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova
: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Pamfilova, usually we had one-on-one meetings following election campaigns. The circumstances are a little different now, but not talking with you at this time would not be the right thing to do. It is not only that you personally did a lot to organise the proper work of the central and local polling stations, so that the nationwide vote on the constitutional amendments could effectively take place on July 1, but also a huge army of the election commission members worked alongside you at the Central Election Commission and locally.
This year, the situation was special and, of course, I followed closely how the work was organised. The organisation was up-to-date, at a high level and of very high quality. The people were able to openly express their position on the constitutional amendments, and everything was organised in a highly democratic manner and, as far as I understand, with very few violations. In any case, the observers and the media are saying so. It was important to arrange work with the media and observers accordingly. It was a challenging task, indeed. Despite the fact that precautions to ensure security, social distancing and so on were taken as needed, election commissions’ members worked in close contact with the people and in this sense one may say they put their health at risk.
However, the outcome of the work – I am not talking about political results, but purely technical and epidemiological, if I may use this term in this case – shows that everything went perfectly from the point of view of safety. Thankfully, there have been no manifestations related to the epidemic among the members of the election commissions, and specialists and doctors say there has been no increase in the coronavirus caseload since July 1, but on the contrary, the decrease continues.
Therefore, I want to thank you, Ms Pamfilova, and all your colleagues that you represent across the country. I want to express my gratitude, thank you myself and, of course, on behalf of the people who participated in the vote, because you and your colleagues have done a lot to effectively ensure their safety.
With regard to ensuring democratic procedures, everything was done at the highest level, too, and I want to thank you for this, as well. Thank you very much.
Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova: Mr President, thank you very much for your continued support. If I may, I would like to say a few words about our opinion. The voting was held in conditions of highest possible sanitary and epidemiological safety for the people. Everybody helped us, and all possible measures have been taken, including the provision of personal protection items for the voters. Everything has been done so that people could cast their ballots without any risk to their health.
Moreover, voting was available to everyone. In other words, people could choose the method that suited them most, including the time, the place and the form of voting. It was an unprecedented experience.
In general, I would like to say that the voting itself was absolutely free, open and transparent. It can be said that this nationwide vote became the quintessence of direct democracy. I insist that this is so, and let anyone attempt to question this. We created conditions for the people to directly express their will regarding the fundamental law of Russia. Why do I insist that it was the quintessence of direct democracy? Because our election commissions constituted a representative cross-section of society. Nearly 900,000 people were working on the commissions at different levels. They represented over 40 political parties and a huge number of public movements.
In other words, those who were responsible for organising the vote themselves constituted a wide cross-section of society. Moreover, 526,000 observers worked all those seven days monitoring all forms of voting. We had observers from 18 political parties and 1,600 public movements and NGOs, who are a cross-section of society as well. This is why I say that it was the quintessence of direct democracy, when the people were able to express their will without any intermediaries. I believe that only very strange people could protest against this method of voting.
The vote was unprecedented in its openness and transparency with 11,000 journalists representing 2,500 different media outlets, including leading international publications. Let me give you an example. I am not sure if there are countries out there where they could operate so freely. They could go anywhere and engage in observations at a polling station of their choice and cover the developments.
Take Reuters, for instance. They observed the procedure at a station in Moscow Region for seven straight days. Our journalists who work abroad, and Reuters itself, can only dream about this. In the UK, for instance, media presence at polling stations is illegal. In the United States, in order to get a permit, you need to apply directly to the commission, which almost always says no. With us, it was free and open, and we were not hiding anything.
What else made it unprecedented in its openness and transparency? Video surveillance was set up in 81 regions. Not a single country practices similarly wide video surveillance as we do in this country. Anyone can see the turnout and voting results online. I am not sure if any complaints can be made here. As a result, we have an unprecedentedly low number of violations, 33 in all. We identified and prevented them in good time.
We received over 600,000 calls to our hotline and information centres. Mostly, the callers wanted to know what types of voting were available, with remote electronic voting available in two regions. We picked 120 pre-voting complaints, which we thought constituted possible violations, and sent them to governors and law enforcement bodies.
This outcome, Mr President, makes us proud. I am grateful to my colleagues for this unprecedented effort. The campaign was quite challenging. Thank you for your evaluation of our work. I think we coped with the task.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Pamfilova, now it is time to get ready for September, the September nationwide elections.
Ella Pamfilova: Our preparations are in full swing.
We have very many, almost 8,700 various campaigns at different levels. The elections will take place in 83 regions. All the necessary measures have already been taken.
Mr President, after the nationwide vote, sociological services conducted polls. The respondents told them they quite liked the procedures we offered them. We are now thinking of what to do next. Although everything has become much better, the epidemiological situation varies in different regions. Of course, seven days is not realistic, but it is possible to consider holding the elections over two or three days rather than one in order to ensure safety. We will discuss what other measures may be taken to ensure complete safety in the current situation and give people additional opportunities to vote. As for other issues, we are working on them.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Pamfilova, do you need any help, any support in your preparations for the September election campaigns?
Ella Pamfilova: For the time being, we are all right on our own. We have very good relations with the Government, and all agencies, including Rospotrebnadzor. As a last resort, if we need anything, I will call you since I have a direct line with you.
Vladimir Putin: All right, Ms Pamfilova. We will stay in touch. I would like to thank you and all your colleagues very much once again for organising the nationwide vote on July 1 of this year.
Thank you very much.
Ella Pamfilova: Thank you.
Persons
Pamfilova Ella
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 9, 2020, 14:20
Text version