Events
On support to talented youth (TASS interview)
The ninth part of Vladimir Putin's interview to TASS News Agency has been published.
The 20 Questions with Vladimir Putin project is an interview with the President of Russia on the most topical subjects of social and political life in Russia and the world. Total recording time is 3.5 hours.
March 5, 2020
15:00
5 of 6
Vladimir Putin gave an interview to TASS Russian News Agency.
Andrei Vandenko: All paths are open to our young people, one would like to believe.
Vladimir Putin: I hope so.
Andrei Vandenko: Have you heard this meme: ”How do you like it, Elon Musk?“
Vladimir Putin: No, I have not.
Andrei Vandenko: But have you heard about Elon Musk?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course.
Andrei Vandenko: He is launching a Tesla, while Rogozin is creating an elevator to the moon.
Vladimir Putin: An elevator to the moon? And so?
Andrei Vandenko: They are in different leagues.
Vladimir Putin: I can give you different examples. A group of young people from a graduating class showed up. This whole group of people came.
Andrei Vandenko: Where?
Vladimir Putin: To one of our institutes and created the Iskander. This group of young people from a graduating class showed up and in a few years, they created the Iskander. One of our cutting-edge weapons that we are proud of. The best in the world.
On support to talented youth (TASS interview)
Young people showed up and created the Peresvet. This is an example from the defense industry. But they did it.
Andrei Vandenko: So, let them create a Tesla-like passenger car.
Vladimir Putin: Prokhorov said he would make…
Andrei Vandenko: An airplane.
Vladimir Putin: He did not succeed yet.
Andrei Vandenko: Ah, yes, the Yo-mobile.
Vladimir Putin: He promised; he showed it to me. I even went for a ride in it. But it has not been working for him so far.
In the high-tech field and in the nuclear sphere we have been making great strides. We have outperformed everyone; we are the world's largest manufacturer of nuclear units for power plants. Not weapons, mind you. This is state-of-the-art technology. It is developing very rapidly.
If we look at military equipment, say military aviation, we are really on top here. We will continue moving forward in the civilian sector as well. We already have our own pharmaceutical products, very good ones. And so on. Gradually, it is gaining momentum.
Andrei Vandenko: I meant something different.
Vladimir Putin: What?
Andrei Vandenko: When I mentioned Musk. He is not exactly an idol, but some sort of a role model.
Vladimir Putin: Fine, but…
Andrei Vandenko: Whom can we offer as an alternative, not an American…?
Vladimir Putin: We have Kaspersky. I believe he is really good at what he does. He is a leader, without a doubt.
If the screws had not been tightened, if competition had not been artificially stifled, it would have been much better. This is what comes to mind right away.
Andrei Vandenko: How do you feel about the fact that according to one of the opinion polls half of the young people want to leave the country?
Vladimir Putin: There are all sorts of opinion polls. And target groups can also differ. Some want to leave, others want to return. As I have already said, the latter’s numbers are on the rise.
Certainly, if we want our people to fulfill their ambitions in their own country, the state must boost its efforts to ensure this. And we will do so.
I think that the number of good specialists is steadily growing and the fact that our specialists find employment in the global labor market means that we provide a good higher education.
Andrei Vandenko: Does the Leaders of Russia contest live up to your expectations?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course. They are really great guys. However, not only do we have the Leaders of Russia contest, there is also Russia – Land of Opportunity, with a whole set of mechanisms that seem to be working very efficiently.
Andrei Vandenko: And what do you think the criterion is? Is it the number of public appointees or the number of proposals coming from…?
Vladimir Putin: Among the contests I mentioned, we do not have a single contest for a specific job or office.
We simply allow people to expand their knowledge and capabilities even more, yet simultaneously, when working with these people, representatives of major corporations or ministries and agencies pick out future employees.
Actually, by doing so we have already found ministers, deputy ministers and even governors and deputy governors. This is a very good social elevator.
Andrei Vandenko: The Sirius project also represents such a new experience. I mean the Sirius center.
Vladimir Putin: Sirius is a little different.
Andrei Vandenko: Of course. It applies to young people, I mean.
Vladimir Putin: Absolutely, but this is a method of working with gifted children. We have never had… Well, we did.
Andrei Vandenko: In Soviet times?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, we did… Actually, when I was deciding to create Sirius I… By the way, do you know how this idea emerged?
Andrei Vandenko: No, I do not.
Vladimir Putin: Olympic facilities in the Imereti Valley. Suggestions immediately started coming in to dismantle something and relocate it somewhere. But dismantling and relocating would cost us about the same as constructing something new. It would be better to change the location, and finally I decided to build something new in some other place.
But how do we make use of what is available? At first, a simple, even primitive, thought entered my mind: to use these facilities for children's sports. But later I thought, why just for sports? We inherited a system of advanced education and training from the USSR. I mean physics and mathematics schools, biology schools, then music colleges at conservatories, ballet schools. We are proud of all this.
And, of course, sports, that is figure skating, our prestigious sports where we have good capabilities and where we have been successful, and hockey. So, I came up with an idea of putting this together.
Andrei Vandenko: Do you mean the original idea was yours?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, yes, I came up with it.
A colleague of mine who was invited there said to one of his colleagues, ”He is not going to succeed“. When asked why, he said, “To begin with, your hockey players will beat up the math whiz kids.”
Yet, nothing of the kind has occurred there. Because kids, even powerful athletic lads, respect their peers who achieve noticeable success in their fields because they know that this requires great effort and talent.
So, Sirius… By the way, I was the one who came up with the name as well. I was sitting and thinking about a name and suddenly I recalled that the brightest star in the sky is Sirius.
It brings together the brightest kids. That is why I proposed this name. And the name stuck.
Andrei Vandenko: It could not have been otherwise
Vladimir Putin: But why?
Andrei Vandenko: Putin said so.
Vladimir Putin: Anything can happen.
Here, we use the system of selecting gifted kids established back in the Soviet Union. I mean these physics and mathematics schools, biology schools, music schools and so on.
From these schools, every 21 days we pick a group of kids for Sirius and arrange 21‑day training courses for them. Then we pick out those with the best potential. It turned out to be a very good idea.
Moreover, do you know what is interesting and what I especially like about this? Here, we see athletes communicating with math geniuses while math geniuses may go to see a hockey match or ballet performance for the first time. Thus, they get involved in physical fitness. This is really great. I like this very much.
The next step should be to create a modern university. We have already set up a scientific cluster of laboratories there specializing in such priority fields. There are several of them, four, I believe.
Then we intend to create a technology park there consisting of a school, a university, and a scientific laboratory, and the techno park where innovations can materialize. We will link the whole process.
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 5, 2020, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Russian-Turkish talks
March 5, 2020
19:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
8 of 9
Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan giving statements to the press after Russian-Turkish talks.
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
, who is in Russia on a working visit.
The two leaders discussed the Syrian crisis and possible measures to settle it in the context of the recent aggravation in the Idlib de-escalation zone.
After the talks in resticted format, consultations continued with the participation of the delegations of the two countries, which included foreign and defence ministers.
* * *
Beginning of Russian-Turkish talks in resticted format
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Thank you for coming to Russia. As usual, we have things to discuss. The situation in the Idlib zone in Syria has deteriorated so much that we need to have a direct and personal discussion.
First of all, I would like to express our sincere condolences over the death of your military personnel in Syria. Loss of life is always a big tragedy.
Regrettably, as I have told you by telephone, nobody, including the Syrian military, was aware of your troops’ location. At the same time, there were casualties among Syrian servicemen as well. The Syrian army reported major losses.
Therefore, we need to discuss everything and analyse the current developments so that, first, this does not happen again and, second, that this does not damage Russian-Turkish relations, which I know that you value as well.
As you requested, we are ready to begin our talks one-on-one, and then our colleagues, who are with us in this room, will join us, if necessary.
See also
Press statements following Russian-Turkish talks
March 5, 2020
Once again, welcome to Moscow.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): Yes, Mr President, I would like to also thank you for your welcome.
As you know, we were going to hold this meeting in Turkey but due to your ongoing work on constitutional amendments, we decided to accept your invitation and come here. Certainly, this meeting on Idlib talks is very important.
The situation in Idlib is indeed very tense. I know that the entire world is watching us today and I think that the action and decisions we take today will definitely have a mitigating effect.
This is a time when the relations between our countries have indeed reached a peak. Of course, this concerns the defence industry, trade and other areas; they continue developing.
We believe and say that we need to make progress in this area. In fact, this is our biggest task, to move forward and develop our relations. I believe we will succeed.
Once again, I would like to thank you for your welcome.
<…>
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 5, 2020, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Turkish talks
Upon the completion of the Russian-Turkish talks, which lasted about six hours, Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan made statements for the press.
March 5, 2020
20:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan giving statements to the press after Russian-Turkish talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
Today we held our third meeting this year. Our close personal contact allows us to promptly resolve various issues of bilateral cooperation and develop common approaches to settling key international problems.
Today we discussed the serious situation that has taken shape in Idlib Province in Syria. Since the beginning of the year, the criminal gangs operating there have sharply stepped up their activities. They have regularly shelled both Syrian government troop positions and civilian residential areas.
The radicals have continued to attack the Khmeimim Russian air base. Another attempt to hit it with a multiple launch rocket was made on March 1.
In all, the Khmeimim air base has been attacked 15 times since the beginning of the year. Each time, we informed our Turkish partners about it in real time.
The militants have actually managed to provoke the resumption of hostilities. Regrettably, there have been losses among the Turkish military as well.
In this respect, I again expressed my condolences to Mr President, knowing that he feels these losses very deeply, to the families of the dead and to all Turkish people.
We do not always agree with our Turkish partners when evaluating what is happening in Syria, but to this day, in each critical moment, we have managed to find points of contact on emerging disputed issues and reach mutually acceptable solutions by relying on the high level of bilateral relations.
It happened this time as well. Today, we reaffirmed the interest of our countries in continuing our cooperation in the Astana format as well. It was the Astana process that provided a serious impetus for a settlement in Syria at one point.
Our meeting today was preceded by a lot of work and several rounds of intensive consultations between inter-departmental delegations with an emphasis on the crisis situation in the Idlib zone. We proceed from the need to observe the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity in Syria.
We are also convinced that the struggle against international terrorism must not be let up. Following our talks, we agreed on a common document, the provisions of which will be made public by our foreign ministers.
This document describes the solutions that the President of the Republic of Turkey, Mr Erdogan, and I elaborated during today’s consultations, which lasted over six hours.
I would like to express hope that these agreements will create a solid foundation for the cessation of hostilities in the Idlib de-escalation zone, stop the suffering of civilians, put an end to the expansion of the humanitarian crisis and create conditions for the continuation of the peace process in the Syrian Arab Republic between all conflicting parties.
I would also like to thank Mr President for coming to Moscow today, confirming the level of our relations.
I would like to thank all of our Turkish colleagues for their intensive and difficult but constructive work that, in my opinion, produced positive results.
Thank you for your attention.
President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): I am also very grateful.
Mr President,
Ministers,
Ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to greet you cordially and express my respect for you.
First, I would like to express my gratitude to Mr Putin for his kind invitation.
At a time when tensions are still running high in our region, I am pleased to meet with Mr Putin again. During today’s meeting, we discussed issues related to Syria in detail, as well as the latest developments in Idlib.
We can say – Mr Putin also said this – that we have worked on these issues for about six hours. In this respect, I would like to note that we had a sincere dialogue, and we discussed these relevant issues with Mr President.
I can say, and you know this, that relations between Turkey and Russia are deeply rooted in history, spanning over five centuries. Of course, our countries and our people in both countries maintain very strong traditions and cooperation. Our strongest wish is that we continue to cooperate on the basis of mutual respect.
This year we are celebrating the centenary of our diplomatic relations. We have invited Mr Putin to our country on this occasion.
Ladies and gentlemen,
As you know, in September 2018 Mr Putin and I adopted the Sochi Memorandum of Understanding that made it possible to reach relative stability in Idlib.
It reads that tensions in Idlib will be reduced, any attacks in the region prevented, and existing status quo maintained. But starting in March attacks by the regime have become more frequent, which led to casualties among civilians and violated the Idlib agreement.
First, I would like to say that primary responsibility for this rests with the forces of the regime, which breached this agreement. This region is home to four million people. We believe it is unacceptable to call 4 million residents terrorists and subject them to bombings.
People, refugees leaving their homes because of the regime’s tough position – according to the UN there are about 1.5 million of them – are now near our borders.
The main goal of the regime in Idlib is to ravage this region and put Turkey into a difficult position, facing a new wave of refugees. No doubt, Turkey will not stand idle in the face of such a threat.
We have established observation posts in Idlib to reduce tensions in the region. They pledged to merely monitor the ceasefire but not control the territory.
Some time ago we reached an agreement with Russia to send reinforcement to stabilise the region – to curb certain groups from continuing their attacks and to deter attacks by the regime. We are taking an active part in this.
In this process, we tried to do all we could to coordinate our actions with Russian agencies and military. The regime’s attacks led to sad events and in this context it is necessary to establish a new status in Idlib.
Today, in Moscow, together with our Russian colleagues, we discussed cooperation between our countries in detail. This cooperation was a contributing factor in resolving this issue.
We have agreed to expand our relations to address political issues and the issues relating to the eastern bank of the Euphrates. We believe the regime’s forces will not be able to hurt our relations with Russia.
Today at the negotiating table we decided to discuss this issue and show that we have the will to resolve it. First of all, I would like to note that we will declare a ceasefire as soon as possible and then we will coordinate our next steps.
Today, at midnight March 5, a ceasefire will be put in place. All the necessary steps will be taken to ensure a sustainable ceasefire. Our objective is to avoid any further exacerbation of the humanitarian situation in this region.
We will spare no effort to provide the necessary assistance to everyone in Syria who needs it. We will also make it easier for the refugees who fled the area as a result of these attacks to return home.
In a little while, the foreign ministers of our two countries will make a statement that we have agreed on. In this process, Turkey reserves the right to use force to respond to any attack by the regime. Throughout this process, I will be in contact with my close friend; we will continue to maintain contact, as will the relevant bodies of our countries.
Regarding the Syrian crisis, we will continue to work based on the principle of Syria’s territorial integrity as well as political unity to resolve this issue, I mean the Sochi agreements.
I believe that the only key to resolving this issue is to ensure lasting peace and stability within the framework of the Geneva negotiating process.
I would like to greet everyone, and I believe that we will benefit from all of our meetings.
See also
Russian-Turkish talks
March 5, 2020
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Fight against terrorism
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 5, 2020, 20:15
Text version