Events
Meeting on resolving humanitarian issues in Nagorno-Karabakh
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev and FSB Director Alexander Bortnikov.
November 13, 2020
17:15
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting on resolving humanitarian issues in Nagorno-Karabakh.
During the meeting the President told the participants about the formation of an Interdepartmental Humanitarian Response Centre to facilitate the resolution of humanitarian issues and the restoration of the civilian infrastructure in Nagorno-Karabakh.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We have met to discuss the situation that has taken shape in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict zone. I hope we will no longer use the term – “the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.”
See also
Executive Order on Interdepartmental Humanitarian Response Centre
November 13, 2020
I hope that we will soon move on to the discussion of other issues but one of them is fairly topical. I will tell you about it now.
At the beginning of our meeting I would like to ask the Defence Minister to report on the developments in the zone of responsibility of our peacekeepers.
Go ahead, please.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
In accordance with your Executive Order, a Russian peacekeeping contingent consisting of 1,960 troops, 90 armoured personnel carriers, and 380 vehicles and special equipment is being deployed in Nagorno-Karabakh and the Lachin Corridor.
The 15th separate motorised rifle brigade of the Central Military District forms its core.
The Lachin Corridor was taken under control during November 10 and 11. The peacekeeping units entered Stepanakert at 5 pm yesterday and set up four observation posts outside the towns of Stepanakert and Shusha. Today, we are completing the deployment of observation posts at the South area of responsibility. There will be nine of them there. Another peacekeeper unit is deployed in northern Nagorno-Karabakh. Tomorrow, we plan to complete the deployment of eight posts in that area.
We continue to transport equipment and materiel at a rate of 25 flights per day by military transport aircraft. In three days, 73 flights were made with 1,103 troops and 1,168 pieces of equipment transported.
The Defence Ministry’s operational group has been deployed, and direct communication channels have been established with the defence ministries of Azerbaijan and Armenia, with which work continues to clarify the parameters of the peacekeeping operation.
The Russian peacekeeping forces are controlled from the command post deployed in Stepanakert. The situation is monitored around the clock, and the ceasefire continues in the area of the peacekeeping operation.
The command of the peacekeeping contingent has taken the necessary measures to ensure the safety of the Russian servicemen.
I would like to note separately that the humanitarian problem is deteriorating every day, including transport and the return of refugees, as well as other humanitarian issues.
Thank you, that concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Mr Bortnikov, part of the responsibility has been assigned to the FSB Border Guard Service. How are things in places where our border guards are on duty?
FSB Director Alexander Bortnikov
: Mr President, in accordance with your instruction, the Federal Security Service has deployed five additional border posts with the help of the FSB Border Guard Department in the Republic of Armenia: two posts on the border of Armenia and the Nakhchivan Republic (Yeraskh and Paruyr Sevak); two posts on the border between Armenia and Iran (Meghri and Sygyr); and the fifth post, Tegh, on the border.
The necessary steps have been taken as agreed with Armenia’s border authorities, and we are in contact with the Azerbaijani border guards. We have established the necessary contacts, are exchanging information, and the border guards are on duty in the state border protection mode.
We have no further issues to discuss as of this moment.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Mr Lavrov, I asked you to inform our partners, primarily our OSCE Minsk Group partners and co-chairs, about the current developments in connection with this problem, to contact international organisations. How is this work progressing?
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
: Mr President, we have provided detailed information to our colleagues, primarily from France and the United States as co-chairs – alongside us – of the OSCE Minsk Group.
I spoke with the French Foreign Minister and explained to him in detail the situation and the efforts that you have undertaken. I also spoke with my US colleagues. In New York, the UN Security Council has been fully updated about Russia’s efforts that made it possible to conclude the November 9 agreement.
We remain in contact with international humanitarian organisations, primarily, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the United Nations Development Programme.
These agencies have an established presence in the region, but not in Nagorno-Karabakh per se. In contact with our Armenian and Azerbaijani colleagues and at the request of the UN agencies, we are working to have them deploy their presence directly in Nagorno-Karabakh.
The UN is interested in coordinating its actions, in the event of such a deployment, with our peacekeepers and border guards, as well as with those who will provide humanitarian aid as part of Russia’s mission.
In addition to the UN agencies and their requests, namely, to provide access to Karabakh and people in need, they also want to have accurate data on the number and destinations of the refugees and displaced persons. We also need to work on these numbers ourselves, also in conjunction with Azerbaijan and Armenia.
In addition to the UN, there is also the International Committee of the Red Cross, which has been operating in the region for a long time now and has had a permanent mission in Stepanakert for many years. After the outbreak of hostilities, they had to evacuate the mission to Yerevan. They are now back there and have resumed their work and are also interested in establishing coordination with our representatives.
President of the International Committee of the Red Cross Peter Maurer will be in Russia on Tuesday. We will set up a meeting for him at the Foreign Ministry, and also with our military, the Emergencies Ministry and border guards.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Now about the Emergencies Ministry. Mr Zinichev, if additional assistance is needed for civilians, and I am sure it is needed and will speak about this now, what can the Ministry do as an immediate response?
Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev
: Mr President, we are ready, within eight hours after the decision is made, to transport a combined group there consisting of the central office’s task force and 150 personnel of rescue teams, as well as 17 units of equipment.
If need be, we are ready to send an airmobile hospital with 50 personnel, including medical workers, for rendering medical aid to civilians.
We are ready.
Vladimir Putin: All right, thank you.
Indeed, colleagues, the issue of helping the people who were impacted by the hostilities in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict zone return to normal, peaceful life is very important and urgent.
The trilateral statement adopted by the President of Azerbaijan, the Prime Minister of Armenia and the President of Russia on November 9 has made it possible to stop the bloodshed and stabilise the situation. The shooting and armed clashes have ceased completely.
A Russian peacekeeping contingent is being deployed along the contact line and the so-called Lachin Corridor in conformity with the statement.
It is necessary to pay attention to the serious humanitarian problems in the Nagorno-Karabakh area. We have just received reports to this effect. As a result of the hostilities, the number of dead, including civilians, has exceeded 4,000. Over 8,000 people have been wounded. According to different estimates, there are tens of thousands of refugees. The civilian infrastructure and many cultural landmarks have been destroyed.
To help the people of the region resolve the most urgent problems I consider it necessary to establish an Interdepartmental Humanitarian Response Centre. The centre will use the resources of the Defence Ministry, the Emergencies Ministry, the Foreign Ministry, the FSB Border Guard Service and other departments of the Russian Federation.
The centre will support the return of refugees to the places of their permanent residence; cooperate with government bodies of Azerbaijan and Armenia on restoring the civilian infrastructure and creating the conditions for normal life in Nagorno-Karabakh; and coordinate the work of government agencies and, I am hoping and relying on this very much, the efforts of public organisations on rendering humanitarian aid to the residents of the districts hit by the hostilities. The centre will also provide assistance to the government bodies of Azerbaijan and Armenia, if they need it, of course, and I think this assistance will be very helpful, considering their complicated history in the past, in developing cooperation with international humanitarian organisations and between themselves.
I would like to ask the Foreign Ministry to continue informing our partners in the OSCE Minsk Group about the adopted decisions. It is also necessary to report them to the International Red Cross, the Red Cross Committee, and the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. It is necessary to develop constructive, full-fledged work with these agencies, including the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Our colleagues from UNESCO must be contacted. I am relying on their support very much as well.
I hope that all these agencies will give comprehensive support to the activities of the Interdepartmental Centre.
We also hope for a contribution and help from the Commonwealth of Independent States. We will maintain close cooperation with all potential participants in this important work.
I would like to thank all participants in our meeting for what has already been done. I am counting on your effective concerted efforts, that is, cooperation both between your agencies and with colleagues from Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Thank you.
Geography
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Bortnikov Alexander
Lavrov Sergei
Shoigu Sergei
Zinichev Yevgeny
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2020, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Talent and Success Foundation Board of Trustees
The President took part, via videoconference, in a meeting of the Talent and Success Foundation Board of Trustees.
November 13, 2020
18:35
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 4
Meeting of Talent and Success Foundation Board of Trustees (via videoconference).
The Foundation Head Yelena Shmelyova presented the main report.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I welcome you to the meeting of the Talent and Success Foundation Board of Trustees. Traditionally, we will discuss today the current work of the Sirius Educational Centre and prospects for its further development.
But first of all, I would like to congratulate all of you who helped create Sirius, congratulate its students, educators and tutors, on the first milestone anniversary. Sirius turned five years old last September.
Within this historically short period of time, Sirius has become, without exaggeration, Russia’s true asset. I would like to say thank you very much to all of you.
It was in our country that a one-of-a-kind educational centre was set up at the Olympic facilities. This so-called Olympic legacy (and this was a decision we made in due time – to establish this centre as part of the Olympic legacy) benefits children. Sirius helps gifted schoolchildren, primarily from the regions, including small towns and even remote villages, to set high goals for themselves and get off to a strong start in life.
Today, the participants in the Sirius programmes study at the country’s top universities and get government grants and fellowships. By the way, this support is also rendered via Sirius. Some of them have already signed future work contracts and even work at the largest, successful domestic companies.
As for young musicians and ballet performers, our outstanding arts, ballet and music schools have opened their doors for them, while Russian national junior ice hockey teams are practically made up of all Sirius students. I believe that young hockey players are destined for new great victories ahead.
Apparently, such remarkable successes and achievements of Sirius students were made possible by an unparalleled training format, at an intensive pace and in an environment with talented peers and truly excellent star tutors. Sirius is at present the world’s only educational centre where teaching is conducted by world-class scientists, outstanding educators, athletes, coaches and musicians.
But I would like to underscore that we have always regarded Sirius not as a closed elite club for the chosen but rather as an open national platform for working with talents which concentrates the best technology and expertise for unlocking human capabilities, in our case those of a young person, a teenager or a child, of course. Such practices are widely replicated and change the system of working with the youth across Russia. We will definitely speak about this crucial area of Sirius activities today, too.
I would also like to note the following. Today at the forum of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives, my colleagues and I discussed proposals from very different people on our country’s development. These projects embody the best qualities of our people, our nation, its unique talent and civil patriotism.
We must by all means preserve and multiply our human potential. To do this, we must build up our education today and establish effective mechanisms for children’s development throughout the country for them to discover their talent and soar to new athletic, artistic and scientific heights. We must create the conditions for the children to succeed here, at home, in their native land, in Russia.
Friends,
In this regard, it is crucial that Sirius continues to expand its orbit. Its roadmaps even extend beyond the coming decade. They are really, as they say, about the whole 21st century.
A university, research laboratories and an advanced innovation centre are being launched here, where research will be conducted and practical developments made in the areas that, without any exaggeration, determine the progress of the entire civilisation. They include life sciences, cognitive disciplines and AI.
I am sure that such tasks and their solution will turn Sirius into a magnet for everyone who is ready to become a trailblazer and ensure a true technological breakthrough, for Russian scientists and our compatriots, for engineers at high-tech companies and, of course, for Sirius students. All that matters for them.
Their living and working space should also reflect the improving climate in general, it must reflect the sense of a new time, the beat of life, and must be designed with account of advanced trends in urban design, architecture and city development. Obviously, the very best solutions should be used for preserving the environment and expanding opportunities for the people.
Let me reiterate, here, in the Imereti Valley, new products as well as technical and other solutions will be designed, and work should be pursued on the projects of the future in the full sense of this word, which means new rules, laws and standards will be needed for inventing and introducing fundamentally new technologies. And, of course, effective management mechanisms that will allow for taking prompt decisions, implementing Sirius’s development projects and engaging research universities, scientific centres and companies from across the country.
In this regard, I deem it correct to use a new provision of the Constitution of the Russian Federation and grant Sirius the status of a federal territory, which entails economic independence for Sirius and a direct communication mechanism with both the President and the Government of Russia.
Members of the working group on drafting constitutional amendments – I asked them about it – prepared a respective draft law. As you are aware, it has already been submitted to the State Duma. I ask the Government to duly prepare all necessary legal acts for the functioning of the Sirius federal territory, including during a transition period, and also to ensure the economic basis for its activities. Let me repeat – all decisions must come into effect as early as next year, 2021.
And certainly, in view of new decisions on the status of Sirius, I expect proposals on its further development. Let us discuss all these issues.
<…>
Topics
Children
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2020, 18:35
Text versionEvents
ASI forum Strong Ideas for a New Time
Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in the plenary session of the forum Strong Ideas for a New Time, organised by the Agency for Strategic Initiatives autonomous non-profit organisation. 
November 13, 2020
16:25
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in the plenary session of ASI forum Strong Ideas for a New Time.
The agenda includes economic, technological and social development in Russia.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
First of all, I would like to greet the project leaders and all participants in the Strong Ideas for a New Time forum. It is a great initiative. I want to thank all of you for the organisation of this important event. And, of course, the Agency for Strategic Initiatives.
Despite all the current difficulties, you have not abandoned your plans, and in fact had a real brainstorm, or one can say, crowdsourcing all across Russia. You have combined the energy of having a dream and brave endeavours for the development of Russia.
Of course, we will not be able to listen to the authors of all 15,000 ideas and projects today, but I am sure that most of them are comprehensive and constructive and all of them reflect the sincere desire of our citizens to build a Russia as we want to see it: a successful, safe, free and modern country where people are of highest value, where they can prosper, work, raise children and build their businesses, that is, a country that provides broad opportunities for self-fulfilment.
I would like to emphasise that in order to move forward together and strive for nation-wide success, the contribution of each person to the fate of Russia should be appreciated.
We need to help grow and implement the best ideas and proposals, offer more freedom for the realisation of social, environmental, educational, technological and business ideas, projects by creative industries, tourism development, as well as the development of our cities and rural areas.
In this context I would like to note that almost 10 years ago, when the Agency of Strategic Initiatives was being established, it was done to launch and implement civil initiatives. It is very important that, by supporting such separate projects, we will move forward.
It should be noted that as a result, specific steps were developed to improve the procedure and principles of the operation of hospitals, clinics and the social sphere as well as employment centres that today are at the epicentre of addressing labour market issues.
Let me repeat once again: we have to carefully examine people’s proposals, look into their life situations and tailor measures to support Russian families and overcome poverty to solve their problems. Our focus must always be on the demographic and social policy, which means we must take a serious step towards improving the quality of life and welfare of the Russian people, so that they would live up to the 21st-century standards.
Friends,
The world is changing rapidly. We can see colossal changes in technologies and public life. A new era is dawning. We need strong ideas and also effective mechanisms for dynamic and sustainable development. We must also have the ability to implement them.
It is necessary to turn interesting and substantive ideas into viable projects with a team and an action plan, to lift administrative and legislative barriers and choose clear sources of financing.
The Agency’s Expert Council headed by Igor Shuvalov has rich experience here. As part of preparations for the forum, you engaged almost 900 experts, including those competent in project management, and helped to develop 1,000 of the best ideas presented at the forum so far.
We must increase dramatically the scale of this support. In order to do this, I would like to ask the Government, VEB RF and the Agency of Strategic Initiatives to develop and launch a complex mechanism to implement socially important projects of the people. I suggest examining how the model is working regularly, at every meeting of the Agency’s Supervisory Board, as well as how many ideas gained support and were implemented in practice.
Similar, system-oriented effective instruments must, of course, also be used to support school children (I know we will discuss this today) and students when they launch their businesses. Projects of our young entrepreneurs and young technical talents must “take off” and become successful start-ups, and, still better, companies that will be competitive in Russia and the rest of the world. It is necessary to strive for this goal by all means and certainly support such ambitious attitudes. Naturally, in this context, today I would like to hear the specific proposals of the Youth Initiative Centre established at the ASI.
In this context, I would like to note and emphasise the following: we need each and every idea, each idea matters, the concepts of young people are extremely important. It is very good that they are already setting vectors, accelerating the speed of changes, creating so-called new meanings, culture, media and business models, as well as unique technical solutions. I would like to repeat it once again: this is very precious for us. I am inviting young people to take a more active, involved and meaningful part in our common efforts to develop the country.
Friends,
Before we go over to dialogue, to the discussion of what you have done, I would just like to say a few words about some of the things that I consider extremely important.
What are they? In all times and historical eras, Russia’s strength has been based on the talent of our people, our ideals and values, mutual aid, respect for our history and patriotism.
Today, these moral principles are expressed in sincere, inimitable cultural and educational initiatives, the social service of volunteers and the non-profit sector, and the work of the search movement that keeps our memory of the Great Patriotic War.
Owing to these common values we feel as a single nation and sincerely share our common destiny, victories and difficulties.
This year, as it has always been during trying turbulent times and we are now undergoing serious pandemic-related trials, ordinary citizens, young people, medical workers and entrepreneurs have done, are doing and, I am sure, will do striking deeds that deserve admiration because of their generosity and cordiality. We really do have many bold, honest, responsive and active people that form the foundation of Russia. We must reveal the enormous creative powers of our people, implement their unique, distinctive ideas and solutions and build together a comfortable life for our people, build a comfortable country.
We can and will do this together by all means.
Thank you for your attention. Now let’s get down to work.
<…>
Topics
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 13, 2020, 16:25
Text version