Events
Immortal Regiment event
May 9, 2020
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Immortal Regiment event.
The Immortal Regiment nationwide event is held on Victory Day in Russia and abroad. During the march, people carry photos of their family members who took part in the Great Patriotic War. The first march was held in Tomsk in 2012.
On the 75th anniversary of Victory, the Immortal Regiment event is held remotely, online.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I would like to address those of you who answer the call of your heart and regularly take part in the Immortal Regiment march with photos and portraits of your family members and loved ones who took part in the Great Patriotic War.
Whether we march in a single formation or stay indoors like today, our heroes are always with us in our hearts. And this will always be so; they will remain with us forever. Meanwhile, we will have another chance to walk the cobblestones of Red Square to pay tribute to our heroes.
See also
75th anniversary of Victory
May 9, 2020
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2020, 15:00
Text versionEvents
75th anniversary of Victory
On the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War, the President laid flowers at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in the Alexander Garden.
May 9, 2020
10:15
Moscow
20 of 26
Vladimir Putin observed a flypast marking the 75th anniversary of Victory from Ivanovskaya Square in the Moscow Kremlin. Photo: Mikhail Metzel, TASS
The ceremony at the memorial ended with a march of the guard of honour and a military band.
The President also laid flowers at the obelisks of hero cities and the monument honouring the cities of military glory.
Following the ceremony on Ivanovskaya Square of the Moscow Kremlin, Vladimir Putin watched a flypast marking the 75th anniversary of Victory.
The President instructed Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu to pass on his words of appreciation to the airborne personnel and ground services of the Russian Defence Ministry who performed and supported the flypast over Moscow and other Russian cities on Victory Day.
Vladimir Putin congratulated veterans and all Russians on Victory Day.
* * *
Speech at the flower-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear citizens of Russia, veterans, friends,
With all my heart, I greet you on Victory Day.
This day is our most important and most cherished holiday, which we celebrate solemnly across our nation, all together.
Victory Day will always have a tremendous spiritual and moral significance and be a sacred date for us.
It is our memory and pride, the history of our country and of every family. It is a part of our souls, passed on to us by our parents and grandparents.
Today we strongly feel the magnitude of their fates as we remember those who are no longer with us and look lovingly at their photographs of different years. We wish our veterans a long life and bow to the glorious generation of victors.
They did so much for our Motherland that it is impossible to measure or repay. They saved our country and the future generations; they liberated Europe, protected peace, restored cities and villages and achieved enormous success.
We pay tribute and endlessly honour the monumental and selfless heroism of the Soviet people, people of different ethnicities who stood shoulder to shoulder with each other in combat and on the home front. Their courage, unity, nobility and truly unfaltering willpower are timeless.
Friends,
This place by the Kremlin Wall is sacred to all of us. The Eternal Flame burns here night and day, in tribute to those who fell during the Great Patriotic War. It is here that the Unknown Soldier lays. We come here to pay our respects to him, as well as to all the defenders of our Motherland.
We pay tribute to the heroes lying in unknown mass graves near Moscow and Smolensk, Stalingrad and Kursk, Sevastopol and Minsk, Kiev and Riga, Berlin and Vienna, at the Pulkovo Heights, and on the banks of the Neva, the Dnieper, the Danube, the Vistula and the Oder.
Millions of those who fell did not live to see the Victory they dreamed of, believing that they would prevail over the enemy and return home. This is what they fought for to their last breath. They sacrificed their lives so that we, our children and grandchildren, and those who are yet to be born live in a world saved and preserved by the Soviet soldier.
We bow our heads in tribute to those who did not return from the war, commemorating our sons, daughters, fathers, mothers, grandfathers, great grandfathers, husbands, wives, brothers and sisters, comrades in arms, relatives and friends.
Let us observe a minute of silence.
(A minute of silence.)
Friends,
The Great Patriotic War ended 75 years ago. We will celebrate this anniversary properly and on a grand scale, as we always do, since this is the debt we owe to those who achieved Victory through their sacrifice.
We will have the main parade on Red Square, and the people’s Immortal Regiment march to show our gratitude and the unbreakable and living bonds of kinship linking generations.
Our veterans fought for life and against death, and we will always try to live up to their spirit of unanimity and resilience.
We are united by our shared memory, hopes and aspirations, as well as a sense of shared responsibility for the present and the future.
We know and strongly believe that when we stand together, we are invincible.
Congratulations to all of you on this holiday.
Happy Victory Day!
Hooray!
(Russia’s National Anthem.)
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2020, 10:15
Text versionEvents
Presidential Regiment review
On Victory Day, Vladimir Putin reviewed the march of the dismounted and equestrian guards of the Presidential Regiment on Cathedral Square of the Moscow Kremlin.
May 9, 2020
12:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 6
On Victory Day, Vladimir Putin reviewed the march of the dismounted and equestrian guards of the Presidential Regiment on Cathedral Square of the Moscow Kremlin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, comrades.
Greetings on Victory Day to you, to all Russian military personnel and to our dear veterans.
Seventy-five years ago, in May 1945, the Red Army put an end to the tragedy of the 20th century and triumphantly ended the most violent battle in history.
It was a just, heroic and selfless battle for the entire Soviet nation. It was the Soviet people who defeated Nazism and crushed that monstrous force that brought death, grief and suffering upon millions of people.
I am certain that decades and centuries later, the grateful world will remember this act of heroism, and for the people of Russia, the perseverance, strong will and unity of the generation of victors will always be the highest example of a sacred feeling towards one’s homeland.
Today, a flypast in Russian skies honoured all the heroes of the Great Patriotic War. A ceremonial military march will take place here, in the heart of our country, on Cathedral Square in the Moscow Kremlin.
The heirs of the Great Victory are standing in these ranks today. And I am certain that each and every one of you, all the soldiers and officers of the Russian Armed Forces try to live up to our veterans, to the bravery of front-line fighters, their dedication to military duty and their Oath, their loved ones and their Fatherland, for which they fought never sparing themselves, fought to the last breath at the legendary frontiers and nameless heights.
The Russian Army and Navy are faithful to these martial traditions. Modern-day defenders of our Motherland have proved this in battles against international terrorism, solving extremely difficult tasks of ensuring our country’s security.
We remember the lessons of the war. I would like to stress once again that all the development plans for the Russian Army and Navy will be fulfilled. Nobody should doubt that.
Our Armed Forces have been and will continue to receive the latest military equipment. Most importantly, we know that these weapons are in safe hands. They were entrusted to people who are inspired and guided by love for their Fatherland, their people, dedication to our historical memory and the great legacy of the Victory soldiers.
Glory to our people, the nation of victors!
Glory to the valiant Russian Armed Forces!
Happy Victory Day! Hooray!
Topics
Armed Forces
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2020, 12:15
Text version