Events
Russian-Kyrgyzstani talks
Vladimir Putin held talks in the Kremlin with President of the Kyrgyz RepublicSooronbay Jeenbekov who was in Russia on a working visit.
February 27, 2020
17:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Russian-Kyrgyzstani talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
I would like to warmly welcome you to Moscow.
Last year we agreed to hold cross years of Kyrgyzstan in Russia and Russia in Kyrgyzstan. Today, we will have the opportunity to launch these years during which we plan to organise over 200 events. I am sure they will be interesting and will help to develop our ties.
These relations are making steady progress practically in all spheres. Russia remains Kyrgyzstan’s key trade and economic partner both in terms of trade and investment.
We always have things to discuss. We meet regularly and last year we met more than once. I am confident this will be the same this year.
We are really delighted to see you. Welcome to Russia!
President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sooronbay Jeenbekov
: Mr President,
First of all, allow me to thank you for your warm welcome and hospitality that we have felt since the first minutes of our arrival in Russia.
I am very glad about our meeting and the opportunity to discuss some issues regarding our cooperation.
I would like to note that our bilateral cooperation has become markedly more active in the past two years. Your state visit to the Kyrgyz Republic in 2019 was a great success. Many documents were signed, which fuelled our active actions at all levels.
As you so rightly noted, in 2019 together we declared 2020 our cross year. We expect great changes this year. On our part, we will do everything for them to take place.
The eighth inter-regional forum took place in Bishkek last year with your participation. This year we have high expectations of the ninth inter-regional forum that will take place in Yekaterinburg. I am sure it will give another impetus to our development.
We are getting ready to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War together with you. Many large-scale events are being planned.
We are a reliable partner in the EAEU.
Using this opportunity, I would like to thank you very much for your personal support on practically all issues concerning our bilateral cooperation.
We in Kyrgyzstan cherish and highly appreciate our historically friendly relations that were tested for centuries. We will be Russia’s reliable partners and strategic allies.
Thank you for the warm welcome and for your hospitality.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Jeenbekov Sooronbay
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 27, 2020, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Congratulations to military personnel and veterans of Special Operations Forces
Vladimir Putin congratulated military personnel and veterans of the Special Operations Forces on their professional holiday.
February 27, 2020
19:00
Congratulations to military personnel and veterans of Special Operations Forces.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers,
I congratulate you on your professional holiday, Special Operations Forces’ Day.
First of all, I would like to thank you for your excellent service and for confidently and clearly fulfilling the most difficult military tasks, for the reliability and firmness you showed in protecting Russia and its national interests as well as the safety of the country and its people.
In the year when we will mark the 75th anniversary of the Great Victory, I convey special words of gratitude and honour the veterans of the Special Operations Forces, those who stood at the origins of the glorious traditions of the legendary special forces.
Entire generations of true warriors who fought against enemies in Afghanistan and acted bravely during the counter-terrorism operations in the North Caucasus and Syria grew up on your example. We will always remember the heroes who sacrificed their lives for Russia and Russians.
The best, most well-trained and courageous fighters, soldiers and officers now honourably serve in the Special Operations Forces. We will continue to focus on building up their full-time personnel and providing equipment as well as increasing their military potential. Amid new and nonstandard challenges and threats, this is a priority in the development of our Armed Forces.
I am confident that you, the Special Operations Forces commanders and fighters, will always act decisively and skilfully, during strategic and tactical exercises, in a real military operation follow orders impeccably, and manage to fulfil the most difficult task as best as you can and as you have proven it in action many times.
I wish you success in your service, and I wish your families and friends happiness and prosperity.
Congratulations!
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 27, 2020, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Launch of Russia-Kyrgyzstan cross years
Vladimir Putin and Sooronbay Jeenbekov launched the Year of Russia in Kyrgyzstan and the Year of Kyrgyzstan in Russia during a ceremony held at the Grand Kremlin Palace.
February 27, 2020
21:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 5
With President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sooronbay Jeenbekov during the ceremony to launch the Year of Russia in Kyrgyzstan and the Year of Kyrgyzstan in Russia.
The programme of the cross years includes more than 200 events, to be held in the Russian Federation and the Kyrgyz Republic.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
Congratulations on the opening of the Year of Russia in Kyrgyzstan and the Year of Kyrgyzstan in Russia. This is a great occasion and a landmark event for our countries and peoples.
The Russian Federation and the Kyrgyz Republic are strategic partners and allies, and are committed to consistently developing these relations in all spheres.
Our two countries maintain intensive political ties, and are proactive in their political dialogue. President Jeenbekov and I have regular meetings, and our talks today were held in a traditionally business-like and constructive atmosphere.
Let me note that Russia and Kyrgyzstan are working together to ensure regional stability, engage in military cooperation in a bilateral setting as well as within the Collective Security Treaty Organisation
, and coordinate their positions in international organisations. We have established close cooperation on integration-related matters within the Eurasian Economic Union
.
Major joint projects are underway in the mining sector, transport and high technology. Russia is Kyrgyzstan’s main energy supplier.
Russian education institutions continue to train qualified professionals for the Kyrgyz economy.
Let me emphasise Russia’s commitment to make every possible effort for further strengthening its diversified ties with Kyrgyzstan. We hope that holding the cross years of Russia and Kyrgyzstan contributes to these efforts.
This is the first time our two countries undertake a project of this scale. Let me remind you that Mr Jeenbekov and I decided to hold the Year of Russia in Kyrgyzstan and the Year of Kyrgyzstan in Russia during the state visit to the Kyrgyz Republic in March 2019.
In keeping with the instructions of the heads of state, ministries and agencies of the two countries, together with the business community, civil society and youth associations, have done a great deal to prepare these events.
The programme of the cross years includes more than 200 events, to be held in Russia and Kyrgyzstan with a view to stepping up bilateral relations and promoting direct people-to-people ties between our two countries.
In particular, the programme includes business conferences and missions to discuss ways of expanding mutual trade and investment, exploring new avenues for cooperation in manufacturing, agriculture, healthcare and other areas.
There will be a forum of university rectors from Russia and Kyrgyzstan, a young leaders’ forum, and various research, academic and student workshops.
Promoting cultural and humanitarian cooperation is another priority. The programme provides for tours by theatres and musical ensembles, fine art and photo exhibitions and film screenings. All this will undoubtedly help our people learn more about each other’s culture, history and traditions.
The programme for the cross years includes a series of meetings between representatives of Russia’s and Kyrgyzstan’s regions. In September, Yekaterinburg will host the 9th Russia-Kyrgyzstan Inter-Regional Conference.
Of course, historical commemorations and patriotic events devoted to the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War will be high on the agenda. It is extremely important that Russia and Kyrgyzstan are doing a great deal to preserve and honour the memory of the heroic past that we share, of the courage and military feats of our fathers and grandfathers, who won us peace.
We are looking forward to seeing Mr Jeenbekov and the Kyrgyz delegation at the May 9 anniversary celebrations in Moscow, and we hope that the Kyrgyz military will take part in the Parade on Red Square alongside representatives from a number of other countries.
To conclude, I would like to wish every success to the organisers and participants in the Russia-Kyrgyzstan cross years. I strongly believe that the events to be held as part of this initiative will contribute to strengthening our friendly ties in all areas.
Thank you for your attention.
President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sooronbay Jeenbekov
: Mr President, people of Russia, people of Kyrgyzstan, ladies and gentlemen,
Congratulations on the launch of the cross years of Kyrgyzstan and Russia.
Today’s event can be regarded as an expression by our peoples of the shared commitment to forge even closer ties. Kyrgyzstan cherishes the history it shares with Russia.
As far back as a century and a half ago, of all the possible options the Kyrgyz people chose the development path that was associated with the people of Russia. If history is any guide, this was the right step to make. Today, we pay tribute to the wisdom and vision of our ancestors who took this decision.
There is no denying that much progress was achieved in education, science, culture and industry over the seven decades that Kyrgyzstan was part of the Soviet state.
Almost 30 years have passed since the Kyrgyz Republic became an independent state, which did nothing to affect the unbreakable cultural, spiritual and brotherly ties between our peoples. Despite all the upheavals of the post-Soviet period, we have remained a close, brotherly and friendly nation for Russia.
I am delighted by the fact that apart from intergovernmental relations, the people of our two countries share close friendly and brotherly ties. Together, we have succeeded in preserving centuries-old shared cultural and spiritual values. In Kyrgyzstan, the Russian language not only enjoys an official status, but is also used in inter-ethnic communication, bringing our peoples even closer together.
Friends,
This year we are marking a glorious page in our shared history, the 75th anniversary of Victory over Nazism in the Great Patriotic War. Preserving the truth about the most terrible war in the history of humankind and passing it on to future generations is our sacred duty. We will never forget the courage and fortitude of our fathers and grandfathers and the great feat of the Soviet soldier.
Russia plays a great role in asserting the truth about the war. We fully support President Putin’s efforts to prevent any attempts to distort the history of the Second World War.
Friends,
Today the Kyrgyz Republic is a sovereign state and an independent international actor. The Russian Federation today is a world power with considerable influence on the international arena. Russia is our close and reliable ally and long-term strategic partner.
In expressing the will of our people, we speak in a single voice within integration and military and political associations, primarily the CIS, the EAEU, the CSTO and the SCO.
Stepping up cooperation within the Eurasian Economic Union is an utmost priority for Kyrgyzstan. I would like to note the prominent role played by the Russian Federation in enabling the Kyrgyz Republic to join the EAEU and adapt to its requirements.
Moving forward, we will further strengthen friendship between our peoples and promote long-term allied relations. The people of Kyrgyzstan value and will always remember the considerable support it has been receiving from Russia and its leader, Vladimir Putin.
<…>
Ladies and gentlemen,
On behalf of the Kyrgyz Republic, I would like to express my sincere respect and gratitude to all the people of the Russian Federation. I thank Mr Putin for his warm welcome and hospitality, and wish our countries peace, prosperity and well-being.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Russian-Kyrgyzstani talks
February 27, 2020
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Jeenbekov Sooronbay
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 27, 2020, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Brain drain and Silicon Valley (interview to TASS)
The fifth part of Vladimir Putin's interview to TASS News Agency has been published.
The 20 Questions with Vladimir Putin project is an interview with the President of Russia on the most topical subjects of social and political life in Russia and the world. Total recording time is 3.5 hours.
February 27, 2020
15:00
Brain drain and Silicon Valley (interview to TASS)
Andrei Vandenko: Why aren’t you asking me about what I am holding in my hands?
Vladimir Putin: Well, it is an iPad, I assume.
Andrei Vandenko: Oh! We decided to check the most popular search queries for Putin.
Vladimir Putin: Ok.
Andrei Vandenko: What topics do you think our public is interested in?
Vladimir Putin: I do not know.
See also
High-profile cases, National Guard and dispersing rallies (interview to TASS)
February 26, 2020
Andrei Vandenko: Take a look.
Vladimir Putin: Ok.
Andrei Vandenko: We can read it out loud.
Vladimir Putin: Ok. ”Putin biography“, ”Putin Instagram“, ”Putin Georgia“, ”Putin news conference 2019“, ”Putin young“, ”Putin Poland“, ”Putin family and friends“, ”Putin age“, ”Putin fired generals today“, ”Putin Nord Stream“, ”Putin Zelensky“, ”Putin lookalike proof“.
Andrei Vandenko: I like the last one – “Putin lookalike proof“. Are you the real Putin?
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Andrei Vandenko: Do you have a double?
Vladimir Putin: No.
Andrei Vandenko: Never had one?
Vladimir Putin: No.
Andrei Vandenko: Has that topic ever popped up?
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Andrei Vandenko: And?
Vladimir Putin: I discarded the idea of any doubles. This was during the toughest time of our war against terrorism.
5 of 6
Vladimir Putin gave an interview to TASS Russian News Agency.
Andrei Vandenko: At the beginning of the 2000s?
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Andrei Vandenko: So that a double would go to places where it was dangerous…
Vladimir Putin: Well, he would go there, be seen…
Andrei Vandenko: So no double?
Vladimir Putin: No.
Andrei Vandenko: All right. Let us switch to another topic. Digitalization and artificial intelligence. Why is everybody dreaming of going to Silicon Valley instead of Skolkovo?
Vladimir Putin: Firstly, not everybody. The brain drain is on the decline. And in general …
Andrei Vandenko: I can tell you what it is like.
Vladimir Putin: Ok, I do not doubt that it still exists. Because people are like fish. Fish like the bottom deeper and flatter, man also looks for what is better, as a well-known saying goes.
Andrei Vandenko: What about the state?
Vladimir Putin: I will tell you about the state, too. But a skilled workforce, or let us put it differently – top-notch professionals, look for better places to employ their knowledge, capabilities, and skills. Wherever the pay is better, that is where they go. It’s as simple as that. So, the state should create conditions to attract top-ranked professionals. There are two ways of doing this.
Andrei Vandenko: Ok…
Vladimir Putin: Either we isolate ourselves the way it was done in…
Andrei Vandenko: You mean keep them from leaving?
Vladimir Putin: Grab hold of them and don’t let them out. Saddle them with some extra liabilities. For instance, someone who’s received a higher education cannot leave the country, that individual will have to work here, must either do this or that or reimburse for the cost of his tuition. And so on and so forth. This is what has been proposed for the healthcare sector. Or a labour market…
Andrei Vandenko: For oneself?
Vladimir Putin: In general, if a person studied at the government's expense, he has to either stay here and work or refund the tuition costs. This is one of the ideas.
Andrei Vandenko: And what do you think about it?
Vladimir Putin: By and large, this is a possible option. It is possible. If a person studies…
Andrei Vandenko: Sort of serfdom.
Vladimir Putin: Why? If you pay for your tuition yourself, you have the right to go anywhere and work wherever you please. But if you study at the government's expense, especially if your region pays for your tuition hoping that you’ll come back…
Andrei Vandenko: I agree.
Vladimir Putin: Then it is quite fair. If you do not want to work there or if you are unable to comply with the terms of the contract, then you are expected to refund the tuition costs. That’s quite fair.
The other option is to create conditions, to pay better. As you know, it just seems easy. Civil aviation began to pay decent salaries because it needed foreign experts, and this resulted in a labour market imbalance. It affected military pilots who eagerly began to leave the armed forces, flocking to work as co-pilots on civilian airlines. The same is happening here.
So, we should think over this matter. There is a need to raise salaries, but how do we do this? One option is through grants. We have just developed a vast system of grants. It encompasses not only the IT segment, but also the high-tech industry in general. And it works well.
I guess you have some statistics ready on how many people are leaving. But take a look at how many people are coming in. There is an influx now.
Andrei Vandenko: The number of people leaving every year is exactly the same as the number of those employed at Mail.ru.
Vladimir Putin: Maybe. But Mail.ru keeps making progress as well. You see? Yandex is thriving too.
Andrei Vandenko: So it is an annual rotation…
Vladimir Putin: Listen, Yandex is developing as well. They did not exist in the past, but now they do. And they compete well with major global companies, including Google. This proves there is progress.
It is impossible to keep them all here. Or maybe, we should not train as many people. It is a lose-lose situation. There are also people who return. And their number is not as meagre as you may think. I met them, the recipients of the so-called megagrants and ordinary grants. They are very interesting people, with good professional experience both in our country and abroad.
Many of them have a strong desire to return. And we are bringing many of them back, we are creating conditions for them and setting up laboratories, along with offering them special salary packages. You know what I found quite interesting and what made me happy? Not only do they want to work themselves, but they also want to bring on board our young people and postgraduates, and form research, development and production groups with them. And they are doing rather well. They are making progress in different areas: genetics, biology, digital technologies, artificial intelligence, and robotics.
Andrei Vandenko: In other words, it is not something like ‘just let them leave, and another generation will arise’.
Vladimir Putin: No, nothing like that. That is not our approach. But it is a long and complicated process.
Andrei Vandenko: And how do you generally feel about the innovations of the last 20 years, I mean electric cars, iPhones, smartphones, and the like.
Vladimir Putin: Technological progress cannot be stopped, nor should it be. We have no plans to do it.
Andrei Vandenko: Do you feel comfortable with that? Do you use it?
Vladimir Putin: I feel comfortable because I do not use any of these devices. I simply have other opportunities.
Andrei Vandenko: I saw you calling my namesake, the boy who was skiing at the Krasnaya Polyana resort at your invitation. You were using a smartphone.
Vladimir Putin: Well, indeed, I do call…
Andrei Vandenko: I did not catch the model. You were holding it in a way…
Vladimir Putin: Your friend Peskov gave it to me so that I could make a call. In all other situations, it is much easier for me to use a dedicated secure line to be connected to any number.
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 27, 2020, 15:00
Text version