Events
Statement by the President of Russia
November 10, 2020
01:35
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Statement by the President of Russia.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Today, on November 9, President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev and Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan have signed a statement on a complete ceasefire and the termination of hostilities in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict zone as of midnight, Moscow time, on November 10, 2020.
The Republic of Azerbaijan and the Republic of Armenia will remain in their current positions. A peacekeeping force of the Russian Federation will be deployed on the contact line in Nagorno-Karabakh and along the corridor connecting it to the Republic of Armenia.
The internally displaced persons and refugees will return to Nagorno-Karabakh and the adjacent regions under the supervision of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.
The parties will exchange prisoners of war, detainees and dead bodies.
The blockade of the economic and transport ties in the region will be lifted. The oversight of transport communications will be ensured with the involvement of the agencies of the Border Guard Service of Russia.
We proceed from the assumption that the agreements reached will create the necessary conditions for a lasting and full-scale settlement of the crisis over Nagorno-Karabakh on a fair basis and in the interests of the people of Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Geography
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Aliyev Ilham
Pashinyan Nikol
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2020, 01:35
Text versionEvents
SCO Heads of State Council meeting
Vladimir Putin chaired a videoconference meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Heads of State Council.
November 10, 2020
15:00
Sochi
1 of 6
SCO Heads of State Council meeting (via videoconference).
The meeting participants discussed prospects for developing cooperation within the SCO and topical issues on the international and regional agendas.
A series of documents was adopted following the meeting, including the Moscow Declaration of the SCO Heads of State Council.
The package of documents also includes resolutions of the SCO Heads of State Council approving the 2021–2025 Action Plan for the implementation of the SCO Development Strategy until 2025, on the SCO Cooperation Concept for Developing Remote and Rural Territories in the Digital Age, on the SCO Comprehensive Plan of Joint Measures to Counter Epidemics in the Region. Additionally, decisions were made to sign memorandums of understanding between the SCO Secretariat and the Secretariat of the UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, the Eurasian Economic Commission, the World Health Organisation, and on the SCO Culture and Integration Centre. Other decisions concern annual SCO performance reports and the 2019 performance report of the SCO Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure.
Adopted documents also include a statement on the 75th anniversary of Victory in World War II and statements on countering the spread of the terrorist, separatist and extremist ideology, including online, on cooperation in ensuring international information security, on countering the drug threat, on joint efforts against the novel coronavirus infection and on cooperation in the digital economy.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues, friends,
I would like to sincerely welcome all participants of the meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Heads of State Council.
We are holding this meeting via videoconference for understandable reasons connected with the coronavirus pandemic, but this will not prevent us from holding a business-like and constructive discussion on the current issues of interaction between our states, reviewing the results of Russians SCO Chairmanship and exchanging views on the key international and regional topics.
Of course, we also need to coordinate our future cooperation plans, in particular, discuss our joint activities and future coronavirus response measures aimed at mitigating the negative impact of the pandemic on our economies and on the global political and socioeconomic processes.
I would like to point out that not just the leaders of the eight SCO member states are taking part in this meeting, but also the leaders of the SCO observer states and heads of the permanent bodies of the organisation. In addition, we have received a video address by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.
All of you have received the agenda of this meeting and the time limit on speeches has been coordinated in advance. If there are no objections, I suggest that we get down to work and announce the meeting of the Heads of State Council of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation open.
As per accepted practice, I would like to open this meeting by making the first statement as the head of state that holds the SCO Chairmanship, after which the other participants of this meeting will have the floor.
Colleagues, friends,
Russia has been leading the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation when all our countries were hit by the coronavirus and had to confront it, respond to the challenge. We had to make adjustments to our joint agenda to accommodate a greater focus on the interaction between the member states in healthcare, protecting our citizens’ lives and health.
I would like to emphasise that the SCO countries have provided and continue to provide help and support to each other in fighting the infection. Russia has donated to its SCO partners about half a million COVID-19 lab diagnostic kits, as well as contactless temperature taking instruments. Teams of Russian medical specialists have been dispatched to Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, and nine such missions have already been completed.
An effective exchange of data and experience has been established between the sanitary and epidemiological services and the healthcare ministries of the SCO states. I would like to just mention that today we are to approve a SCO comprehensive plan for combating epidemics, as well as a special Statement on the coronavirus agenda.
It is crucial that the pandemic has not led to a decrease in the main areas of the SCO activities.
During Russia’s chairmanship, a total of more than 60 joint events were held involving representatives of governments, departments, parliaments, businesses and public agencies. Some of these gatherings, for obvious reasons, were held online. Nevertheless, the SCO managed to maintain a high quality of engagement.
A solid package of final documents on deepening cooperation in politics, the economy and in the humanitarian sphere has been prepared for today's meeting.
I would like to note that the cooperation between the SCO states in foreign and defence policy has noticeably intensified. There have been two meetings of the foreign ministers. In September, a joint meeting of the SCO Defence Ministers was held in Moscow, in which the heads of defence departments of the CSTO and CIS countries also took part for the first time.
We consider this a useful initiative and we hope that such extended meetings of natural partners will become regular. It seems that this will encourage a qualitative increase in coordination at the level of law enforcement agencies to monitor the defence and security situation across the wider Eurasian space.
The Russian chairmanship also continued the practice of joint exercises involving the military and special units from SCO member states as well as our partners, including from observer countries.
In particular, a counter-terrorist exercise was held in Kazakhstan, China hosted an exercise against extremist uses of the Internet, and Russia carried out the first stage of the Solidarity border operation. Apart from that, Russia and Kazakhstan organised and held two Pautina (Spider Web) international anti-drug operations.
And, of course, I cannot but mention the fact that the current year has been marked by celebrations dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II. All the SCO member states have focused on holding commemorative events related to this anniversary. Symbolically, units from SCO countries marched in review during the Victory Parade on Red Square in Moscow along with the Russian military.
Today, following this meeting, we will adopt a Statement, declaring that we cherish the memory of the Great Victory and underscoring the importance of the feat of valour by our peoples that saved the world from Nazism at the cost of immense and irreparable losses. In this, I see not only a tribute to those, who fought against the enemy, but also an important signal to the entire international community concerning the SCO member states’ unity and determination to jointly uphold peace and security.
Colleagues,
It is clear to everyone that the global and regional security situation remains complicated. International terrorism and drug trafficking are still major threats. The scale of cybercrime has grown perceptibly. The strategic stability system continues to deteriorate.
Regrettably, violent regional conflicts are not ceasing either. Moreover, new seats of tension are emerging, including on the SCO’s external borders and in neighbouring regions. Therefore, one of the key components of SCO work is to assist peaceful crisis resolution by political and diplomatic means and to cut short threats emanating from the hot spots.
The situation in Afghanistan remains a matter of particular concern. A lot is being done at the SCO level to help our Afghan friends to attain national accord and build a lasting and durable peace.
The SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group has been created; it has drafted and adopted a roadmap of the organisation’s further steps with regard to Afghanistan. All this is aimed at helping Afghanistan to become a stable and safe state free of terrorism and drug-related crimes and living at peace with its neighbours.
During the past few years, Russia, working with support from the SCO, has organised a series of meetings, which were attended by representatives of all the Afghan political forces without exception. We intend to continue doing our utmost to promote national reconciliation in Afghanistan, including at the platform of the Moscow consultations where Afghanistan’s neighbours are represented, including SCO countries, of course, as well as the United States.
A dangerous level of instability persists in the Middle East and North Africa. The armed confrontation in Libya and Yemen and the remaining pockets of bandit groups in Syria are a source of terrorist threat as well as drug and arms trafficking.
The movement of terrorist fighters beyond that region deserve special attention, of course. This is exacerbating the conflicts.
On a related note, the developments in Karabakh are a huge tragedy. I am really pleased to point out the nascent movement towards a compromise and the agreements reached to stop the bloodshed. I hope that all the steps we have taken recently will bring about a lasting peace to the benefit of the people of Azerbaijan and Armenia.
One more open challenge to our common security is the increased number of attempts of direct foreign interference in the internal affairs of states that are involved in SCO activities. I am referring to the blatant infringement on sovereignty, attempts to split societies, change the countries’ path of development and sever the existing political, economic and humanitarian ties that took centuries to develop.
An attack of this kind has been directed by external forces against Belarus, an observer country of the SCO. Following the presidential election, our Belarusian friends have been put under unprecedented pressure and had to repel sanctions, provocations and an information and propaganda war waged against them.
We regard this as unacceptable that external forces are trying to enforce any decisions on the Belarusian people. They must be given time to sort things out and take whatever steps may be necessary. The same is true of the recent developments in Kyrgyzstan and the unfolding internal political fighting in Moldova.
Colleagues,
Speaking about the economic agenda of our organisation, Russia’s chairmanship was based on the fact that all the member countries are interested in further developing business collaboration and promoting mutually beneficial cooperation in trade, manufacture, the digital economy, innovation, high technologies and food, transport and energy security.
The coronavirus pandemic has dealt a severe blow to the world economy and resulted in a global recession. Of course, our organisation has also faced difficulties. It is estimated that the economies of the SCO member states will decline by an average of 3.2 percent in 2020, which is less than elsewhere in the world, where a drop of 4.4 percent is expected. Trade between SCO member states has also decreased. For example, in January-August Russia’s trade with other member states dropped seven percent.
In this context, the SCO has developed a complex of joint measures to set the situation right: in particular, to implement the SCO Programme of Multilateral Trade and Economic Cooperation until 2035, which was approved in 2019. It is aimed at overcoming negative trends in mutual trade as well as significantly strengthening our ties in investment cooperation, finance and banking, energy, transport and other areas.
Businesses and public circles are actively involved in restoring the member states’ cooperation in the socioeconomic and humanitarian spheres. The Business Council, Interbank Consortium and SCO Youth Council are working. Interregional cooperation within the Forum of the Heads of Regions from the SCO member states is developing. Its first meeting took place just recently, on October 29.
I have no doubt that you, colleagues, will elaborate on the SCO activities I have mentioned, as well as on other issues, and I hope that our work today will be constructive, useful and effective.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
SCO
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2020, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Congratulations on the Interior Ministry Personnel Day
The President congratulated current officers and veterans of Russia’s Interior Ministry bodies on their professional holiday.
November 10, 2020
00:00
The President congratulated current officers and veterans of Russia’s Interior Ministry bodies on their professional holiday.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers,
Please accept my congratulations on your professional holiday, Interior Ministry Personnel Day.
Protecting public order, life, safety and human rights is truly a noble, important, very challenging and often dangerous work. It requires strong will and composure, honesty and decency, respect for the dignity of every individual, readiness to withstand high pressure, not to retreat before the challenges and, following duty and oath, faithfully serve the law and the people of Russia.
Such strong, deep traditions of courage and true patriotism were laid and consolidated during decades by many generations of seasoned law enforcement officers.
Today, I would like to especially congratulate veterans, wish you good health, and again thank you for your loyalty to your professional duty and willingness to share your unique experience and lead younger officers by personal example.
They look up to you and, I am sure, will not let you down and deal effectively with the most challenging problem in any circumstances. We can see this today, when the Interior Ministry officers act decisively in difficult and extraordinary circumstances amid the coronavirus epidemic, ensuring public order and contributing to implementing the most critical and urgent measures designed to protect life and safety of our citizens.
Of course, your daily work aimed at resolutely fighting terrorism and extremism, drug trafficking, organised crime and corruption continues uninterrupted. Efforts to counteract new threats such as cybercrime are increasing. Much has been done to further improve road traffic safety and to prevent violations of migration legislation.
I ask you continue to act decisively and in principled manner in the interest of our citizens and the entire country, to seek fair punishment for those who break the law, to engage even more energetically and substantively in prevention of offences, especially among young adults and adolescents.
Of course, maximum openness to society, reliance on people's trust and respect remain the most important requirement to all law enforcement officers with the Interior Ministry acting as the key link. Their opinion, their unbiased assessments have always been and will be the most important criteria for assessing the Interior Ministry bodies’ effectiveness.
I want to wish you new significant achievements, every success in your service, mutual understanding and love in your families, and reliable support of your families and friends.
Once again, congratulations on your professional holiday!
Topics
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2020, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials, heads of federal agencies and defence industry executives
The President opened a new series of meetings with senior officials from the Defence Ministry, federal agencies and defence industry.
November 10, 2020
18:20
Sochi
1 of 8
Meeting with senior Defence Ministry officials, heads of federal agencies and defence industry executives.
The meeting participants held a moment of silence to honour the pilots of the Russian helicopter downed over Armenia. The President instructed Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu to provide assistance to their families.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers,
Today, we are launching the 15th series of meetings with senior officials from the Defence Ministry, federal agencies and the defence industry. We will examine a number of matters relating to the state of and development prospects for Russia’s strategic nuclear forces.
I want to emphasise that, despite the constantly changing nature of military threats, the nuclear triad remains the primary, key guarantee of Russia’s military security. From a broader perspective, this applies to global stability as well. Preserving this balance of power neutralises the threat of a large-scale military conflict, making vain any attempts to intimidate or pressure our country.
At the same time, we have to take into consideration a number of new and potentially dangerous external factors we currently face. For example, NATO is expanding its military presence in Europe close to the Russian border, and has failed to respond to our proposal to scale down military activity during the epidemic. Moreover, NATO countries’ air forces and navies have even stepped up their operations.
There have also been considerable changes in the conceptual approaches to the use of nuclear weapons as per US strategic planning documents. Today, US nuclear doctrine provides for using nuclear weapons in response to non-nuclear weapons, while there are no specific provisions regulating the use of nuclear weapons. The doctrine directly specifies Russia as the main military adversary, which by the way is totally unjustified.
We also see that the arms control system is faltering and deteriorating. Having terminated the Treaty on the Elimination of Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, the United States said it intended to withdraw from the Open Skies Treaty as well, let alone the withdrawal from the ABM Treaty some time ago.
In fact, the future of the last major treaty on strategic offensive arms limitation is up in the air. I am referring to New START, which expires, as we all know, in February 2021, which means very soon. This document ensures adequate transparency, if I may say so, in terms of strategic nuclear arsenals and helps avert an uncontrollable arms race. For this reason, we proposed extending it, as it was signed by the parties, to give us more time to work on it.
Overall, Russia has been a firm and consistent proponent of reinforcing and improving strategic stability mechanisms and arms control frameworks. We have forwarded our proposals on devising a new “security equation” to our US partners. These proposals take into consideration all factors affecting strategic stability with a special emphasis on first-strike capability. We believe a first-strike attack to be unacceptable. Russia’s proposals could lay the groundwork for further comprehensive dialogue with the United States about the future framework to control nuclear-missile weapons. This is critical for our two countries and for the whole world, considering that we are the two biggest nuclear powers.
Here is what I wanted to say in this regard. First, as you know, on June 2, 2020 I signed Executive Order On Basic Principles of State Policy of the Russian Federation on Nuclear Deterrence. This document clearly spells out the conditions that have to be met in order to decide on using nuclear weapons. In fact, Russia reaffirmed its principled position whereby using nuclear weapons remains the last resort for ensuring national security. Essentially, it means that we can use the nuclear weapons we have at our disposal, but only in response to a nuclear attack against our country. This is what these fundamental documents are all about.
Second, considering the military and political risks in today’s world, we will further upgrade our strategic nuclear forces and consistently strengthen all their components. Let me note that the Army and the Navy have been receiving new missile and aircraft systems. As such, the share of modern weapons has reached 82 percent for the strategic nuclear forces.
The first regiment armed with Avangard hypersonic glide vehicles has entered combat duty. About half of Strategic Missile Forces units have received the state-of-the-art Yars system. Tests of the Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile are advancing on schedule. The lead Borei-A class missile submarine has been delivered to the Navy.
Today, I am asking you to deliver a detailed progress report on defence procurement orders related to strengthening of the nuclear triad. Is everything on schedule?
Third, Russia will maintain its nuclear capability at the level it deems appropriate. It is true that with a number of strategic weapons our country has left other leading military powers far behind. As I said, this is the first time in history that our country, Russia, is not catching up, but producing weapons that are years or even decades ahead of similar foreign systems. Some of our weapons are second to none in the world, and this will probably be the case for a long time to come.
However, while leveraging our intellectual potential, our research schools and the advances we have, as well as the infrastructure, we do not intend to get drawn into an all-consuming arms race. We will not do this, and there is no need for us to act this way at this time. Let me reiterate that we have all the necessary strategic forces to reliably secure Russia’s interests.
Let’s move on to our agenda.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers,
As you know, yesterday two of our comrades, pilots on duty at Russia’s military base in Armenia, were killed in a tragic incident. Major Yury Ishchuk, who commanded the crew, and First Lieutenant Roman Fedina. The systems operator, navigator-pilot also suffered injuries in the crash. We wish him a speedy recovery.
The President of Azerbaijan assured me that a thorough investigation will be carried out as part of a criminal case that has been initiated. The guilty will be held to account.
I am asking the Defence Minister to provide assistance to the families of the deceased.
We will now hold a moment of silence to honour their memory.
(A moment of silence.)
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2020, 18:20
Text version