Events
Meeting of the Interior Ministry Board
Vladimir Putin took part in the annual expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board.
February 26, 2020
14:45
Moscow
3 of 10
At the meeting of the Interior Ministry Board.
The meeting participants focused on the performance of law enforcement agencies in 2019 and various priorities of investigative activities for 2020.
The meeting was attended by heads of legislative, executive and judicial bodies.
Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
delivered the main report.
* * *
Beginning of expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
Let me begin with a few obvious things; there is no harm in repeating them. We can never forget that the Interior Ministry traditionally holds the key position in Russia’s law enforcement system, has direct responsibility for public order and stands on the frontline of the fight against crime.
Today, at the annual expanded meeting of the Interior Ministry Board, we will discuss how you addressed your tasks, what problems we have and, of course, outline the main priorities for the near future.
Assessing your performance in 2019, I will note the high clearance rate of the most dangerous crimes such as murders, wilful infliction of grievous bodily harm, robbery-related assaults and others.
Juvenile crime and street crime has decreased. These changes are important for people. You are directly responsible for making people feel safe and protected in their courtyard, in the entrance hall, in their village or city.
The positive local trends in the regions include a crime drop in the Siberian and Far Eastern federal districts, which has been the case for the fourth consecutive year.
In the meantime, this year it is important to considerably step up our efforts in a number of areas and, before anything else, increase the overall clearance rate.
I would like to stress once again that it is one of the main goals for the Ministry. Achieving this goal requires commitment from criminal units, investigators and all other departments.
Additional measures must be taken with regard to work at the pre-trial stage of criminal proceedings, with a specific focus on ensuring due process by inquiry and preliminary investigation bodies.
I request that any incidents of arbitrary conduct, evidence tampering, direct forgery – which are felonies per se – receive an extremely tough response. Such activity must be prevented, and officers who go beyond the law must be dismissed without hesitation.
The requirements concerning a reasonable term of criminal proceedings must be strictly observed. When dealing with these issues of high relevance for society, it is important to closely cooperate with prosecutors and other colleagues.
Next. Preventing delinquency, especially among minors, is a considerable and substantial segment of your work. Despite the decrease in juvenile crime over the previous period, which I have already mentioned, it is important to intensify these efforts and engage public and religious organisations in work with troubled youth and high-risk groups.
Cyberspace must remain a focus of your constant attention as this is where various radical groups continue to operate, propagating the criminal subculture and encouraging teenagers to commit suicide or break the law.
Once again, the work to expose such groups must never stop, and the organisers and instigators of their activity must receive a well-deserved punishment. I would like to ask you to be scrupulous about the comprehensive safety and security of children’s and educational facilities, including kindergartens, schools, vocational schools, and so on.
Countering extremism remains an urgent task for the Interior Ministry. Yes, last year the number of extremist crimes decreased by more than half. However, this is not a reason for complacency.
The Interior Ministry has a special responsibility to maintain stability in society. And of course, ensuring security in public places requires the most serious attention. Especially during large-scale events to mark the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
I spoke about this at a recent Federal Security Service Board meeting. And I repeat: this is a task for all our special services and law enforcement agencies.
Colleagues, I would like to comment separately on a number of important areas of your work.
The first one is road safety.
Over the past eight years, road traffic deaths have declined by more than one-third, and this is certainly thanks to the traffic police.
But I would like to pay attention to the following. I looked through some reports before the Board meeting: almost 90 percent of those killed in road accidents were citizens aged 18 to 50. That’s too bad that people die from accidents at this age. Therefore, work should continue in this direction.
I ask you to fully use your rights as a coordinator in this area, including rights related to infrastructure development, the introduction of new requirements here, and to more actively and meaningfully participate in the implementation of the national project Safe and High-Quality Roads.
It is necessary to make wider use of modern technical means of control and automated systems and more closely monitor the quality of driver training in driving schools, the provision of emergency medical care and the evacuation of victims from road accident sites.
Particular attention must be paid to passenger transport compliance. Yes, last year there were some slight positive changes in bus transport, but at the same time the number of accidents involving taxi drivers has almost doubled.
The number of people killed has increased by more than a third, and the number of injured has risen 1.5 times. I am asking you and your colleagues from the Transport Ministry and other agencies to focus on this and come up with effective solutions.
Next: further de-criminalisation of the economy and the fight against corruption as well as protection of budget money and other resources we allocate for our country’s development from embezzlement and other criminal intrusions.
Work carried out to prevent the production and sale of fake alcohol, counterfeit and low-quality medicines and other goods from the risk group that can harm and threaten people’s lives requires a more systematic approach.
I am also asking you to work hard to detect crime in environmental management, such as illegal logging and extraction of water biological resources.
Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are still a lot of complaints from entrepreneurs about pressure from law enforcement agencies as well as illegal and unjustified actions, including from Interior Ministry officers.
Economic security is not about treating every entrepreneur as a potential criminal, but about protecting our Russian businesses and law-abiding people who create new jobs and work themselves.
Such work in the sphere of economic security must serve as the most important element in creating an attractive, comfortable and civilised business climate in Russia.
The third sphere is migration and citizenship status. You know that measures have been taken to simplify the process of obtaining Russian citizenship for Donbass residents, as well as to facilitate the resettlement and citizenship procedures for compatriots.
We must continue to improve our legislation and, more importantly, law enforcement practice in this area. I ask you to show consideration for each individual case, show sympathy and compassion, and in general treat in a humane manner those who want a future in Russia.
At the same time, we must securely block illegal migration. In this work and in our efforts to control the labour market, we must above all take into account the interests of our citizens, people of the Russian Federation.
Next, we must fight drug trafficking. It is a crucial part of our work. We must be more flexible yet resolute, acting toughly but also strictly within the framework of the law.
Please note that the Interior Ministry must work together with the Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media (Roskomnadzor) to prevent access to websites and social media accounts that encourage drug abuse.
In addition, I would like to ask the State Duma and the Government to resume a detailed analysis of the legislative initiative on criminal responsibility for online promotion of drug abuse.
The State Duma has returned this draft law for revision. We must do this.
Comrade officers,
Last year we adjusted the remuneration of the Interior Ministry staff and pensions for inflation. The state will continue to give appropriate attention to social support and the provision of resources to the Interior Ministry.
In general, I hope that the Interior Ministry personnel will work even more efficiently in all these areas.
And, of course, I would like to thank the senior executives and personnel of the Interior Ministry bodies for their service. True, there is still much to do. There are unresolved problems, which I mentioned, but overall the Ministry is working smoothly.
Thank you very much.
Topics
National security
Persons
Kolokoltsev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 26, 2020, 14:45
Text versionEvents
High-profile cases, National Guard and dispersing rallies (interview to TASS)
The fourth part of Vladimir Putin's interview to TASS News Agency has been published.
The 20 Questions with Vladimir Putin project is an interview with the President of Russia on the most topical subjects of social and political life in Russia and the world. Total recording time is 3.5 hours.
February 26, 2020
15:00
5 of 6
Vladimir Putin gave an interview to TASS Russian News Agency.
Andrei Vandenko: When was the last time you called a judge?
Vladimir Putin: ?
Andrei Vandenko: When was the last time you called a judge?
Vladimir Putin: I never call judges. At all. I meet with judges from time to time, I mean my former university classmates. There are many judges among them.
Andrei Vandenko: What about those who are in office?
Vladimir Putin: There are some who are currently in office. However, I meet with them as my classmates and not in their capacity as judges.
Andrei Vandenko: With whom?
Vladimir Putin: With my class-… Uni mates.
Andrei Vandenko: Does that expression exist?
Vladimir Putin: Well, let's say I've invented it.
Andrei Vandenko: Do you know what case was the most high-profile in 2019?
Vladimir Putin: No.
Andrei Vandenko: The Ivan Golunov case.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I heard about it.
Andrei Vandenko: And it became a high-profile one in part because active members of society were very disgruntled with what was done to that young man, a journalist.
Vladimir Putin: There was nothing good about it, true.
Andrei Vandenko: Most likely, he could have ended up behind bars.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, but that didn't happen.
Andrei Vandenko: It didn't happen because people got involved.
Vladimir Putin: That's good, very good.
Andrei Vandenko: Is that the only way to guarantee justice?
Vladimir Putin: Look, what I want to say is people getting involved…
Andrei Vandenko: Yes…
Vladimir Putin: That makes a difference in today’s Russia. And it's good. Currently, I think…
Andrei Vandenko: Five people have been detained…
Vladimir Putin: The situation evolves in a simple way, law enforcement agencies are looking into the matter.
Andrei Vandenko: It would have been better if the mastermind behind it all had been found.
Vladimir Putin: Some have been fired, some detained. Do you want them to beat confessions out of people or to obtain them in due course in accordance with the law?
The latter seems to be a better option. But it takes time. There shouldn’t be any rush, nor any haste.
Andrei Vandenko: Konstantin Kotov as well. His case is currently being reviewed, and the Constitutional Court has ordered that… Things got going after this issue had been referred to you, to you personally, after the news conference. So, it appears that the President's personal involvement, this hands-on control does matter after all.
Vladimir Putin: It appears that the President, acting as the guarantor of the Constitution, has such a right and must respond to these sorts of issues, which we see happening in real life.
Andrei Vandenko: It turns out, as the actual figures stand… The percentage of acquittals in 2018 was 0.23 percent.
Vladimir Putin: Do you know what the prison population was in the early 2000s?
Andrei Vandenko: No idea.
Vladimir Putin: It actually halved.
Andrei Vandenko: The prison population? You mean those behind bars?
Vladimir Putin: Yes. The number halved. Decreased in an unnoticeable manner, with no fuss. In fact, it's actually a sort of revolutionary development. It has been taking place gradually, as a result of various decisions liberalising the legal responsibility of citizens who committed minor offenses or are first-time offenders, and so on. It halved.
Andrei Vandenko: You know perfectly well, I don't have to tell you that there were some cases that sparked a widespread public outcry…
Vladimir Putin: That happens.
Andrei Vandenko: Everything is judged based on just one fact.
Vladimir Putin: I understand.
Andrei Vandenko: They judge everything.
The Serebrennikov case, for instance. How much longer must it last? And you will say again that this is for the court to decide.
Vladimir Putin: Of course.
Andrei Vandenko: They have already put their signatures and names on petitions.
Vladimir Putin: Who put their signatures and names on petitions?
Andrei Vandenko: People who have prestige in society, prominent people, they penned a petition for him.
Vladimir Putin: Andrei, listen to me! The opinions of people respected in society are important. I think that the court takes into account the opinions of respected people. But still, it has to make judgments based not on their opinions, but based on the law and legal awareness.
Andrei Vandenko: Certainly. However, there was an incident, which triggered just as much of a public uproar, this concerns the Moscow rallies last summer.
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Andrei Vandenko: When the bottle…
Vladimir Putin: Everyone can…
Andrei Vandenko: Which, in your interpretation, immediately turned into something.
Ok, somebody threw a bottle. You draw a parallel right there with Paris and Hong Kong.
Vladimir Putin: This cannot be allowed!
Today they throw a bottle, tomorrow – a chair, then cars are smashed to pieces. It cannot be allowed, things mustn’t get out of hand, it has to be within the law.
Andrei Vandenko: And the National Guard of Russia, why are the troops so vulnerable, timid?
Vladimir Putin: They are both vulnerable and timid. They are doing their job. And they must do it. Moreover, here they’re dealing with protesters, tomorrow they will face a barrage of bullets, and what’s more they take part in combat operations. And when somebody spreads information over the Internet that their children should be killed, what in the world is that? This is being said about those who, if the Motherland calls, have to put themselves in the line of fire to protect the interests of the state, society and our particular citizens? You know, this can really disrupt the country’s balance. To an extent there will be hell to pay. We can’t risk it.
Andrei Vandenko: But when nightsticks are wielded…
Vladimir Putin: Nobody resorts to swinging a nightstick without a reason.
Andrei Vandenko: Mr President…
Vladimir Putin: Please, listen to me. If people act within the existing rules and laws, who would want to swing a nightstick? On the contrary, they should be protected.
Andrei Vandenko: Watch the video.
Vladimir Putin: I believe you.
Andrei Vandenko: Showing a woman being beaten in her ribs, and then they don’t find the perpetrator – who is he or where is he?
Vladimir Putin: Most likely, you’re talking about the so-called unauthorised protests.
Andrei Vandenko: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: Well, there you have it! Get permission, go and express your opinion. After all, you see, the Internet, the mass media, including the opposition media, they will come wherever you are. Just anywhere you are, wherever you go, wherever you gather to express your discontent with the ruling authorities, since millions of people will be informed about it via the Internet and mass media. Right?
Andrei Vandenko: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: Why block traffic? In order to incite security forces into swinging their nightsticks. And then you’d ask me about it. That is the point! And nothing more!
To display what kind of heroes they are, and that they will protect the interests of citizens with the same zeal if they get into power and engage in governing. It is not enough to just blame the authorities in order to convince the electorate that those who do the blaming are exactly the people they need. It is necessary to provide a positive programme.
Andrei Vandenko: A pike lives in the lake to keep all fish awake.
Vladimir Putin: Right. That is good, but not enough to effectively develop the country.
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 26, 2020, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with members of the working group on drafting proposals for amendments to the Constitution
Vladimir Putin held a regular meeting with members of the working group on drafting proposals for amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation.
February 26, 2020
17:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 5
At the meeting with members of the working group on drafting proposals for amendments to the Constitution.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the legislative and executive bodies, scholars, arts society, as well as prominent public figures.
* * *
Excerpts from meeting with members of the working group on drafting proposals for amendments to the Constitution
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I know that you have been working energetically. According to available information – you will now inform me if it is correct, you have received some 900 proposals.
These are deep-going and meaningful proposals that cover nearly all spheres of our life and functioning of the state; they come from a wide range of different people and pertain to pivotal but different subjects.
I know that this time you suggested that the heads of the relevant structural divisions of the working group report on the results of your work in certain areas.
<…>
On the proposal to enshrine in the Constitution provisions on implementing a unified socially oriented state policy and the principle of targeted social support
Vladimir Putin: I believe that this is extremely important and in demand.
You mentioned the 1990s. But still, it would not be fair to say that the people who were involved in the country’s development and the transition to the market economy did not care what would happen to the average citizen.
It was simply thought – not everyone thought so, but most of the people who made decisions believed that a properly developed economic policy ensuring the economy’s effective functioning would automatically lead to the solution of social problems. But it turned out that this was not quite so or not so at all.
There is an expression “to target inflation”, which means to purposefully lower it again and again. It turns out that if we want to get rid of poverty, for example, we need to target poverty, we need to build a targeted policy to increase people’s incomes, to reduce the number of people living below the poverty line, and so on.
Therefore, the fact that the Basic Law will have such an orientation towards such work, in order to give our entire activity and the state itself a social character, is in demand and, of course, cannot but be supported. We will definitely support it. Thank you very much.
<…>
On the proposal to enshrine in the Constitution the responsibility of the Government of the Russian Federation to ensure the implementation of the social partnership principles
Vladimir Putin: Of course, it is necessary to support it, because this is an extremely important component of the search for compromises in resolving issues related to the development of the social sphere and the economy. We have a tripartite commission – this is one of the central tools to find compromises between the business community and trade unions with the state authorities as a mediator. Therefore, of course, this can be enshrined in the Basic Law.
As for the clause “Promote the development of entrepreneurship and private initiative” – I also fully agree with it. I just attended the annual meeting of the Interior Ministry Board, which reviewed the Ministry‘s performance, and I talked about it there, as I always try to talk about it.
It is obvious that we still have in our public consciousness the idea that entrepreneurs are some kind of criminals. This does not create a favourable environment for developing entrepreneurship, and, accordingly, our small and medium-sized businesses do not develop as we would like them to, not as fast as we would like.
Therefore, the consolidation in the Basic Law of the entrepreneurship role and the state’s obligations to promote the development of entrepreneurship and private initiative is appropriate and in demand. I completely agree with you.
<…>
Chairman of the Federation Council Committee on International Affairs Konstantin Kosachev: My colleagues and I worked in the International Law subgroup. For obvious reasons, we focused on the amendments related to sovereignty, and we strongly believe that, regardless of how international law looks today, the sovereignty of a state is ensured above all by a flawless national constitution and national law.
During its entire existence in its current form, our country has always been under external pressure, facing attempts to restrict its sovereignty. In fact, the current Constitution was written when the unshakable Soviet sovereignty was lost, but Russia had no time to find a new one, in fact. For many years, our country resembled a living organism without skin and, moreover, affected by the aggressive external environment.
During those years, significant national resources were taken from state control, including with foreign incitement, and then a well-known group of oligarchs based their attempt to take state power on this.
At the same time, assets flowed abroad, under the protection of foreign jurisdictions, which meant that Russian sovereignty essentially flowed abroad. If this had worked out, Russia would have probably lost its independence in favour of international companies and the foreign countries behind them. And in the end, of course, not just the state interests but the interests and rights of Russians suffered from this.
First of all, we are talking about expanding the rights of the Constitutional Court by granting the right to decide whether it is possible to execute the decisions of not just international bodies as your amendments suggest but also foreign courts and arbitration tribunals in case they contradict the basic principles of Russian public order.
Second, we propose specifying and elaborating a certain norm envisaged in Chapter One of the Constitution, The Basic Principles of the Constitutional System. Our proposal is to add a clear paragraph to Article 67, prohibiting actions to alienate territories of the Russian Federation as well as calls to such actions.
And finally, third. We believe it is of principal importance to impose – for senior officials responsible for ensuring the sovereignty and the national interests of Russia – restrictions on dual citizenship and residence permits as well as liabilities abroad, such as opportunities to have accounts and deposits or keep money and valuables in foreign banks located abroad.
I mean Government members, heads of federal agencies, senior regional officials and other heads of federal executive bodies, senators, deputies, judges, prosecutors and human rights commissioners.
We believe this is not a repressive measure that restricts rights and freedoms, but above all, protects the aforementioned officials from foreign pressure, blackmail and threats. This measure would ensure the protection of the rights and interests of all Russians who entrust their future to them and the protection of the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: A short comment, if I may. I wholly agree with what was said about the Constitutional Court’s right to decide whether to enforce or not to enforce international court rulings in Russia. You are right; this is directly related to upholding our sovereignty and suppressing attempts to interfere in our domestic affairs.
Now, about the alienation of territories. Last time, I said I completely agreed with this proposal. The only thing is to choose the proper wording that will not be in the Foreign Ministry’s way when it starts demarcating borders in the future.
We understand that this is an almost ongoing effort with many states, especially the former Soviet republics.
Finally, regarding restrictions governing senior officials’ ownership of assets abroad, including bank accounts. Yes, there are restrictions, but when someone chooses to assume a high post in a particular body, he or she must decide for themselves whether they want to own assets abroad or to serve the people of Russia and not burden themselves by whatever ties there may be.
These ties may impose certain restrictions on them when making decisions in the interests of Russia. So, I completely agree with that, and we must include all officials, including the President. So, I propose adding the President to that list as well.
<…>
On the proposal to include in the Constitution the provisions on protecting historical truth and preventing falsification of history, on the values and principles of Russia’s foreign policy, on protecting the interests of compatriots abroad, and preserving Russian cultural identity, which makes it possible to maintain the spiritual unity of the Russian world.
Vladimir Putin: I carefully reviewed this proposal. With regard to preventing falsification of history, I have mentioned this many times, and if you think it is necessary and possible to do this in the form you are suggesting, I think it would be appropriate to focus on historical truth, the unacceptability of falsifying history, and downplaying the grandeur of the feat of the people who defended the Fatherland. This is very important and will be a contribution to the public consciousness and, no doubt, be good for the country.
Now, regarding the attempts to steal our Victory from us. These attempts are being made, but they are futile. Who assaulted Berlin and whose flag flew over the Reichstag? This will never be forgotten. But attempts are being made, that’s true, attempts based on fleeting considerations, and we must oppose them, which is also true. It would be appropriate to delicately reflect this in the basic law as well.
Supporting our compatriots abroad is likewise important. Many of our people are living abroad, and I have had the chance to see many times that ethnicity doesn’t matter.
Everyone is Russian outside of Russia, and everyone who speaks Russian and is steeped in Russian culture is entitled to call themselves that. So, we must protect them and keep in touch with them. Correct.
<…>
On the proposal to make amendments on security of identity, society and the state when using information technology and processing digital data
Vladimir Putin: This is a vivid example of why we need amendments – in this case, to the Constitution.
The need for amendments has come up because basically, there was no similar regulation before and the development of information technology raises a number of issues which we must, of course, address.
Of course, here you touched on a very important problem, which is identity security. Many of our colleagues who are present here have been monitoring public discussions in this area, which are becoming rather heated as these technologies develop.
The question is: what can the state use for the purposes of economic development based on these digital technologies and how? And to what extent the state can disclose data on an individual and how this data can be used publicly? What is a secure way to upload this data to cyberspace? What are the implications for a specific individual?
This is an issue of overlap between the importance of technological development and ensuring security. Let’s say a Big Data system cannot do without data on a specific person, on the one hand, but on the other, it is necessary to protect this individual. How do we find a balance? This is not an easy goal.
Your proposal to lay it down in the Constitution that developing technology goes along with protecting identity, society and the state is an extremely important and, of course, topical proposal. Therefore, without doubt, all of this will receive support, like the environmental issues do.
The relevance of environmental issues in the world in general and in our country, in particular, is also obvious. We have passed entire laws, tough laws, concerning the use of the best available technology to curb emissions and reduce the adverse impact on the environment.
Major efforts are being taken. And, of course, it will not hurt to record it in the country’s Basic Law, including building environmental awareness and culture, as you wrote here. So we will absolutely implement everything, including (as you propose) responsible treatment of animals. Also important and not a minor issue. I agree with you.
<…>
On the proposal to introduce amendments related to historical state unity, cultural identity of all peoples and ethnic groups of Russia, as well as Russian language as the language of the state-forming people in the multi-ethnic union of equal peoples
Vladimir Putin: Of course, this will be a good addition to the Basic Law, and this wording, I am reading it aloud: “The state language of the Russian Federation throughout its territory is Russian, as the language of the state-forming people.”
Then you propose article 4: “The preservation of ethnocultural and linguistic diversity shall be guaranteed throughout the Russian Federation.” I think that the combination of the first and the second points will work very well.
And of course, if we are talking about culture, then it should be supported, maintained by the state. It is strange that this had not been enshrined in the Basic Law before. And of course, the coherence of our history, millennia-old history – it is extremely important, bearing in mind that Russia has developed historically, and in all its periods – during the era of Ancient Rus, the Tsardom of Muscovy, the Soviet Union, and now, in our time – this is one country, and we just have to keep this in mind, always.
We cannot and should not say or instil into our consciousness that our past has nothing to do with our present. If we do so, we will have no future, so I completely agree with you. We must get rid of these clichés – “white,” “red” – it seems to me that the proposal has the same message, so certainly this is a useful and interesting initiative.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: (in response to a speech by the Chairman of the State Council of Tatarstan Farid Mukhametshin, who spoke about teachers’ request to tell the country’s leadership that children should be protected from some programmes on state television channels that do not contribute to the upbringing of the younger generation) We will also try to influence this. I cannot help but agree with the teachers who shared this point of view with you. Indeed, sometimes it is…
But, unfortunately or fortunately, I do not have time to watch all this, I do not see it, but people do. I understand what they are talking about, and I agree with them.
We will try to influence this as much as possible so that it does not look like interference of the state in the work of the media.
Now let us move to another topic that you raised. An extremely important thing – linguistic diversity for Russia as a multi-faith and multi-ethnic country.
I have said many times that our strength is in our diversity. Adding up the positive qualities of each of the peoples in Russia gives a distinct multiplicative effect and strengthens our country.
So, anyone who has shared these concerns with you should understand: the adoption of these amendments should remove their concerns. For the first time, a provision will be introduced into the Constitution according to which the state will be obliged to protect the linguistic diversity of Russia and the peoples of Russia.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: What would I like to say in conclusion?
First, I would like to thank you for all the work the working group did.
Second, we will try to finalize everything that we just discussed, including some of your remarks that have not yet been recorded officially as amendments. When I say “we” I am referring to the lawyers that are working in the Presidential Executive Office as well as those we engage in this work. Let’s try to add to it the results of our today’s meeting and discussion.
Of course, we will work with the deputies to make sure they take into account as much as possible the suggestions of the working groups, including on the responsibility of citizens for their health.
After all, the final version must be formulated and adopted by State Duma deputies. However, I am hoping it will be based on the proposals of the working group for the most part. This is the first point.
The second point, and this is also a big request for you, is to not stop working. Why? Because, as I said, I would like to repeat this: the law on amendments to the Constitution will be adopted only if the results of the national vote are positive, if our citizens turn up and support our proposals.
We have discussed that for people to be able to understand what this is all about and decide whether they want to support our proposals or consider them inappropriate, to explain all this to people, it is necessary to work in the regions.
You have been to the regions many times and continuously met with people and public organisations. I urge you to continue this work until we hold the national vote. I hope after this work is over you will find a few minutes to gather once again and sum up the results of our joint efforts.
Thank you very much. I appreciate this.
See also
Meeting with the working group on drafting proposals for amendments to the Constitution
February 13, 2020
Meeting with members of the working group on drafting proposals for amendments to the Constitution
January 16, 2020
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 26, 2020, 17:50
Text version