Events
G20 Summit
The President is taking part in the Extraordinary Virtual G20 Leaders’ Summit.
March 26, 2020
17:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Vladimir Putin took part in the Extraordinary Virtual G20 Leaders’ Summit.
The summit focused on fighting the coronavirus pandemic and its impact on the global economy.
Taking part in the virtual summit on the Russian side were Finance Minister Anton Siluanov and Representative of the President of the Russian Federation in the G20 (Russia’s G20 Sherpa) Svetlana Lukash.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty, colleagues,
It appears to me that the current problems caused by the new coronavirus pandemic will result in far greater shocks than the financial crisis of 2008–2009, and the trade conflicts and sanctions are worsening the recession.
From our point of view, the key risk lies in long-term unemployment which, regardless of the future scenario, will peak much higher than in 2009. Unemployment dynamics will also serve as a key efficiency indicator for our anti-crisis measures.
The current crisis will inevitably take its toll on global development, and for the long term. Therefore, certainly, we cannot afford to act with an every-man-for-himself approach, our colleagues have said a lot about it already. I absolutely agree with that.
I will start with the top-priority tasks in healthcare.
First. As has been said, of course it is necessary to continue a regular exchange of credible information about the pandemic’s progress in our countries and about the actions being taken. It was also brought up that it is necessary to provide aid to the African countries. I believe that overall today, the World Health Organisation should channel its efforts to detecting hidden coronavirus epidemics in the countries that are not able to organise testing. Also, joint research by our countries could significantly expedite the development of vaccines and medications.
Now, a few words about the economy. The Russian Government is allocating 1.2 percent of Russia’s GDP to fight this crisis. Russia’s Central Bank is providing approximately the same amount of support. But all of us, the Group of 20, need a common action plan to stabilise the situation, support our economies and restore trust across global markets.
Of course, national budgets should play a key role in increasing global demand. However, due to the high volatility of global markets that we see every day, borrowing options are limited for many countries – and we must also take this into account.
The situation is getting complicated. In this respect, it is very important, it is extremely important now to ensure access to financing for countries that are suffering from resource shortages, I mean especially countries that have been affected by the crisis and pandemic. In this regard, we could consider creating a special fund under the auspices of the IMF, financed primarily by the central banks that issue currencies included in the IMF basket, and then granting the right to any IMF member to borrow money from this fund in proportion to his share in the world economy at a zero rate for the long term.
A lot has also been said about the need to ensure supply chains. This is certainly important. But it is equally important to create so-called green corridors for the duration of the crisis, free from trade wars and sanctions, for the mutual supply of medicines, food, equipment and technology.
Ideally, we should impose a moratorium, a joint moratorium on restrictions on essentials, as well as on financial transactions for their procurement. And first of all, I am talking about countries that are suffering the most from this pandemic. In the end, this is a question of life and death of people, it is a purely humanitarian issue. We need to cleanse these issues from all kinds of political husk.
When keeping the G20’s traditional cooperation between the ministries of finance, the central banks and Sherpas, we could strengthen our cooperation at the economic adviser level during this crisis. They have direct access to state leaders and can make decisions urgently, informally and quickly.
And in conclusion, I would like to say a few words about global international organisations. Obviously, they lack mechanisms for automatic stabilisation in the event of a crisis. And so, it is necessary to efficiently and as quickly as possible, work through and resolve all the issues related to their reorganisation.
Thank you for your attention.
See also
Extraordinary G20 Leaders’ Summit. Statement on COVID-19
March 26, 2020
Topics
Foreign policy
G20
Persons
Siluanov Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 26, 2020, 17:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with representatives of the business community
Vladimir Putin met with representatives of the business community.
March 26, 2020
14:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 8
At a meeting with representatives of the business community.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I am happy to see you. We are violating a little the established procedure or the procedure we are trying to introduce, to work remotely, but the issues to be discussed are important, so we decided not to cancel the prescheduled meeting.
I will not describe the situation because all of you are competent people, you read the internet and federal media, and you know what is going on in Russia and abroad.
We have two problems: the oil market has practically collapsed, followed by other energy markets, and then there is this virus. Therefore, we will have to work in several directions at once.
I have already spoken about this and I will reiterate: the most important task now is to protect the lives and health of our citizens. This is obvious. But it is also obvious that if the economy collapses, there will be no resources to carry out this most important task. Everything is interdependent in this life.
You probably saw my statement yesterday, know about the decisions made by the Government even before that; the package of measures is impressive. All of them are aimed at supporting business in general and small and medium-sized businesses in particular. We know well that the small and medium-sized businesses are probably in the most difficult situation, given the developments in the economy stemming from these two problems.
But let us switch from my monologue to a dialogue. Our meeting has only one aim. The Government is in constant contact with representatives of various organisations, business structures and associations. We understand the situation. But the goal of today’s meeting is to listen to you and hear your proposals, ideas and assessments of what is going on. And we will try – my colleagues in the Government and I – to take relevant measures. In any case, you can be assured that we will consider everything you say; you can be one hundred percent sure of it.
Please.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 26, 2020, 14:30
Text version