Events
Meeting with members of the Board of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs
Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with members of the Board of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
October 21, 2020
16:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Members of the Board of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues, good afternoon,
We meet on a regular basis to exchange views on the developments in the global economy and primarily in the national economy. We discuss matters that preoccupy the entire business community. Together, we analyse tasks that call for joint efforts by the government and businesses.
It would not be an exaggeration to say that companies you represent are what we call systemically important enterprises. They are part of complex cooperation and trade chains in Russia and beyond. In the course of your business activities you experience first-hand the challenges the national economy and the global markets face.
You are well aware that the global economic recovery has so far been extremely unstable. Moreover, it could stumble upon new acute hurdles.
The epidemiological situation is challenging. COVID-19 cases are on the rise in Russia and in many other countries as well, and a number of them have introduced lockdowns, with companies coming to a halt or switching over to remote work on a massive scale. This also includes restrictions in everyday life, which affects many sectors of the economy.
It is obvious that in this context the question of what can be done to mitigate the economic and other consequences of the epidemic deserves special attention.
I would just like to note once again: well-coordinated joint efforts of the state, businesses, public organisations and all citizens, their understanding of common responsibility for how this country will pass this difficult and strenuous period are in this respect extremely vital.
I would like to emphasise that protection of life and health of our people must always be in the focus of attention – I have said this many times and want to stress it once again. This is an absolutely key premise that underlies our entire work during the pandemic.
Today, I would like to ask you to give an update on how your companies are implementing measures to protect their workers, their staff from the risks of the epidemic and what you are doing to make sure people stay healthy.
And, of course, now that business connections and the smooth work of companies are undergoing the test of strength, it is particularly important to ensure jobs and wages for our people, and to protect the wellbeing of Russian families and their confidence in the future.
I would like to recall that we have already amassed experience on supporting major, backbone companies and key industries of the national economy. This concerns construction, the light and automobile industries, transport and communications that employ millions of our people.
We created these mechanisms of supporting business and workforce and launched them in spring via direct dialogue with entrepreneurs and the leading business associations, including the RSPP, for which I am very grateful to you.
This is very important for resolving our current tasks but in the process we must not forget about the future development and the build-up of capital investment, which determine the destiny of companies and their positions on the market. As for their problems, we will also discuss them today.
Let’s get going with our meeting, our discussion.
<…>
Topics
Industry
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 21, 2020, 16:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Nikita Mikhalkov
During a meeting, held via videoconference, the President congratulated Nikita Mikhalkov, film director, actor, National Artist of the RSFSR and Chairman of the Union of Cinematographers of the Russian Federation, on his 75th birthday.
October 21, 2020
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Vladimir Putin congratulated Nikita Mikhalkov, film director, actor, National Artist of the RSFSR and Chairman of the Union of Cinematographers of the Russian Federation, on his 75th birthday.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mikhalkov, I won’t keep you long.
You are really going to have a rather busy day today, but I would still like to extend my greetings to you, even if in this form, online, which has become a modern trend. I just wanted to see you and to wish you a happy birthday. I would also like to wish you good health, which is a traditional kind of birthday greeting but it is especially significant in the current situation. In addition to wishing you good health, I would also like to wish you many more years in your profession.
Mr Mikhalkov, you have many prizes, awards and winner’s badges, including Soviet, Russian and foreign ones. The names of some of them speak volumes, like an international award for your contribution to global culture. You may be aware – the news has been already published in the media – that today I signed Executive Order awarding the title of Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation to you.
Of course, you are an extremely talented person and an outstanding member of Russian and global culture. But there is no doubt that each of your achievements is the result of very hard work. Of course, one must be talented to make a career in your profession, but it is also hard work.
Nikita Mikhalkov: Mr President, frankly, I was excited to learn about this award. My profession is very emotional, so I need to somehow restrain my emotions. This is a great reward for me.
Truth be told, there is not much one can do all alone in my profession. Of course, this award is also for my wonderful comrades and associates. In all sincerity, I share this award with them, because without them none of this would have been possible.
You know, when you work for only money or reward, you can never have enough. You always feel like you did not get enough. We did not work for that at all, and for me, in these challenging times, it is extremely important that you acknowledge what we are doing.
Mr President, I understand how hard it is for you and for people in general, because we are besieged. We are the only country today, outside Asia and Africa, that maintains and fights to preserve Christian values and traditional cultural values in general. And naturally, I understand that this sort of antagonism against us began with your Munich speech.
We call both Asia and Europe home, so we can use the wisdom of both continents. I want to give you a wonderful Chinese proverb, which I find helpful: “Throw dirt at me, throw stones at me, I am a river.” This is a deep and accurate message. We must understand that we are a river, and we must not be broken by what they want to do to us, by the fact that they want to force us to live according to their rules.
For my part, on behalf of our studios and our Besogon programme, which, I know, you occasionally watch, and on behalf of the academy, I would like to congratulate you on the occasion of your recent birthday. When an opportunity presents itself, I will give you a book that has just been published about the history of the Mikhalkov family during the 15th-17th centuries. You know, Mr President, it is a strange feeling to be reading about my ancestors who served the Fatherland and, in this sense, I hope we will continue, try to continue to serve.
Once you told me that anything can be forgiven, except betrayal. I absolutely agree with that. I would like to wish that you and I are disappointed in people as seldom as possible. This is always sad. Our family and I will continue to serve the Fatherland, not the authorities, but the Fatherland, as you do, I hope.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Mikhalkov, unfortunately, I cannot give you something you may find significant and interesting now, but I will definitely do so personally as soon as the opportunity presents itself. Today, I want to congratulate you once again and, despite the fact that the working day has not yet ended, I would like to raise this glass to your health, purely symbolically.
Nikita Mikhalkov: I will also do this, and I also want to… Mr President, you know and understand everything. Believe me, I am a steadfast supporter, without flattery. To your good health!
Vladimir Putin: To your good health, Mr Mikhalkov.
Nikita Mikhalkov: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: All the best!
Nikita Mikhalkov: Thank you, Mr President. All the best!
See also
Executive Order on awarding the title of Hero of Labour of the Russian Federation to Nikita Mikhalkov
October 21, 2020
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 21, 2020, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting, via videoconference, with Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin, during which they discussed issues of water supply to Sevastopol and the Republic of Crimea.
October 21, 2020
17:35
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Working meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Khusnullin.
Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: In early October, I asked the Government to come up with proposals concerning reliable water supply to Sevastopol and Crimea. I know that this work has been completed, corresponding decisions have been made, and funding sources identified in the amount of almost 50 billion rubles to be released in several phases. I would like you to review this and report to me in more detail what exactly will be implemented and in what timeframe.
This is important for the people in Sevastopol and Crimea and for those who vacation there. It is also important for businesses, especially when making plans in the sphere of recreation and when making investment decisions on the construction of new hotels, resorts, etc. Clearly, to put it mildly, it is difficult to implement projects like this without water.
Mr Khusnullin, please go ahead.
Marat Khusnullin: Mr President,
Following your instructions on ensuring safe and quality water supply in the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, the Government has drafted and endorsed a comprehensive plan of action.
The plan includes 14 measures from 2020 to 2024 with an overall funding of 48 billion rubles, including 45.9 billion from the federal budget and the rest from regional funds.
The plan envisages the development of new underwater resources (luckily, we have water reserves) and the construction of hydraulic structures, water distribution and water discharge facilities. We are also considering, of course, the need to put in order and conduct major repairs on the existing infrastructure. This infrastructure is pretty worn-out and leads to big losses.
I would like to note that the plan was drafted with consideration for Rosgidromet [Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring] forecasts. Regrettably, in the fourth quarter of 2020 we will still have difficulties due to low water levels. Apparently, a lack of water will still be a problem. The water level of the rivers will fluctuate from 10 to 60 percent of the norm. This situation is different from the past several decades.
We have divided the plan into priority, mid-term and long-term measures. At present, eight of 14 measures are now being carried out.
To implement priority measures based on your instructions, the Government has allocated priority amounts – 5.83 billion rubles from the Reserve Fund, including 4.95 billion rubles for the construction of a water supply inlet on the Belbek river, and a water pipeline to transfer water from the Kadykovsky reservoir to Sevastopol.
We have informed the Defence Ministry of the parameters and it has started working on these facilities: 144 people and 45 units of equipment are already involved. Under our plan, about 200 people and additional equipment will be mobilised in the next two weeks. As of today, we are on schedule.
Some 880 million rubles have been allocated to Crimea and Sevastopol to implement measures on reducing losses in the water supply systems. The design and preparatory work are underway now.
Also on your instruction, Rosgeo is prospecting for water intakes to increase the use of groundwater at existing water inlets. Up to 10 earth augers will be working there by the end of the year; six are already working. They will drill 30 wells, of which 22 will already supply water to the system.
We are ahead of schedule on the construction of the Beshterek-Zuisky water intake and water line to Simferopol. These measures will make it possible to avoid water restrictions in Simferopol and Sevastopol.
In the mid-term, we suggest continuing the measures on reducing losses in the water systems of both Crimea and Sevastopol. We are also conducting geological studies of the ground to find new groundwater sources for the future and to divert part of the Salgir River’s water volume to the Mezhgorny hydroelectric complex. We are also planning to launch a system for sewage water treatment for its reuse for technical purposes at current waste water reclamation plants or plants under construction.
Mr President, our plan also provides for building water connections from the Chernorechensky Reservoir to supply water to Sevastopol and constructing two facilities for reverse osmosis saline water conversion. For now, each of them has a capacity of 20,000 cubic metres per day. However, we will determine their final capacity after analysing the efficiency of the improvements I mentioned and with due account for the economic and social gains. We are also calculating how this will affect utility rates.
On the whole, implementation of the plan will make it possible to additionally supply Crimea and Sevastopol with more than 300,000 cubic metres per day. Of this amount, at least 209,000 cubic metres per day will go to Crimea and at least 100,000 cubic metres per day to Sevastopol. These volumes will be enough to provide residents with reliable water supplies and implement the plan for comprehensive economic development on the peninsula, the plans, as you said, on infrastructure and housing construction.
Funding for the plan is provided under the federal targeted programme for the development of Crimea and Sevastopol. Following your instructions, Mr President, this programme will be extended to 2025, which will make it possible to fully consider the funding for all planned projects. We are most grateful to you for this instruction. It allows us to work consistently for five years.
We maintain daily contact with all interested participants. I would like to ask you to issue an instruction for me to visit Crimea in the near future. It will allow me to personally monitor the implementation of the plan, to see what the builders are doing and how the plans are proceeding so I can report to you on the progress of this work again.
Mr President, I have good news to report to you. At some point, you issued instructions to improve Crimea’s economic appeal for businesses. Just a few days ago, we drafted and issued a Government decision on additional capitalisation for RNKB Bank with 7.5 billion, which we reported to you earlier this year. This will significantly expand lending to businesses and individuals in the region. It is particularly important now that the demand for mortgage loans in Crimea and Sevastopol is on the rise. This decision will also have a positive effect on the dynamics of housing and other construction in the region.
The Government also decided to allocate 500 million rubles for additional capitalisation of the Fund for Microfinance of Entrepreneurship of the Republic of Crimea. This will make it possible to issue several hundred loans for small- and medium-sized businesses.
Also, Mr President, we are working on introducing a special arrangement for investment activities in Crimea and Sevastopol in order to bring in greater amounts of equity capital. We believe this arrangement should allow investors to comfortably ensure the flow of funds into the economy and, of course, improve the Crimean economy. We will report the proposals to you before the end of the year.
That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Okay.
Mr Khusnullin, with regard to the water pipelines that will be built to supply Sevastopol with water from a number of waterbodies, will these projects harm the environment or residential buildings in any way? Will they avoid putting local residents in a difficult situation?
Marat Khusnullin: We carefully considered everything and agreed on these things with everyone, and then identified the route. It was not an easy thing to do. Indeed, our initial proposals touched on the interests of a number of people. We have resolved these issues, and there will be no damage either to the environment or to other users who reside near these waterbodies. We have taken this into account and have agreed on everything with the regions.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent. Keep this possibility in mind when you go to the region, and also talk with the people.
Marat Khusnullin: I will, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Okay then, thank you.
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Sevastopol
Topics
Regions
Persons
Khusnullin Marat
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 21, 2020, 17:35
Text version