Events
Meeting with students, teachers and mentors from leading universities
On the eve of Russian Students Day, the President met at the Sirius Educational Centre with students from leading Russian universities who earned high professional and social achievements, as well as their teachers and mentors.
January 22, 2020
19:50
Sochi
1 of 12
Meeting with students, teachers and mentors from leading universities at the Sirius Educational Centre.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
I would like to welcome all of you and… what date is it today? The 22nd? They say the 21st. (Laughter) Days do fly…
We will soon be celebrating Tatyana’s Day. I would like to extend my greetings on the eve of this student holiday. I would like to wish a happy holiday to all students, all those who study in various education institutions, and also your teachers. I wish you all the best.
I know you are holding a conference, which has become an annual event, as I was just told. You discuss many diverse issues.
We would love to see you, as Sirius graduates, move forward in leaps and bounds and see your personal plans and hopes for professional and career growth coincide with the trends of national development. This is not my first visit with students at Sirius, and I know this is usually what actually happens. This is very important for all of us: for you, your success and for the country. You can probably describe better than I can what is happening in the world of innovation, in the world of technology, what challenges are facing almost every country, including this country. It is very important for us to meet these challenges easily, with pleasure and with the best results.
We are planning to hold a Council for Science and the State Council Presidium meetings, which will be devoted to the same subject – the development of science and innovation. We will combine these meetings. They will be attended by many of my colleagues from the regions, members of the new Government and specialists. We will also invite students and scientists to attend. Incidentally, our science is growing younger and I am very happy about this. We will discuss the issues that you have been dealing with.
Therefore, I used this opportunity – your conference (many young people, your teachers are here) – to speak with you about the issues that you are concerned about in the hope that I will be able to use this and bear this in mind when we hold these large combined meetings in order to adjust our policy on science and education.
This takes care of my opening remarks. Let us proceed to the discussion of the suggested topics.
<…>
Geography
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Professional training
Regions
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 22, 2020, 19:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with representatives of public on social support
During his trip to Usman, Lipetsk Region, Vladimir Putin met with representatives of the public to discuss social support measures for Russian citizens outlined in the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly.
January 22, 2020
15:00
Usman
3 of 6
During a meeting with representatives of the public on social support.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
As far as I understand, not only local residents but also representatives of other regions are present here today – but we chose this place to come and see how some things that I spoke about in the Address recently are being implemented, and to figure out how these things can and should be done in other regions.
The locals probably know this, but for those who do not live here permanently, I want to say that this is a small town with 20,000 to 25,000 residents. It is developing very well, and healthcare is given due attention. We just stopped at a children’s clinic – it was built in five months. Honestly, even for me this is surprising. It was not just built but it has the necessary equipment; it is a modern, smart clinic using IT, and it is almost fully staffed.
Then we toured an art school – the former district committee of the party. The building was completely upgraded, and now a lot of children attend this school and really enjoy it. Of course, there are still issues related to further upgrading and transport – we will address and resolve them. But overall, this is a good example of what is called imitation and replication.
Let us move on to our agenda. It is very important for me to hear your opinion about what was said in the Address. I know representatives of various public organisations and the volunteer movement are present here – so let us hold a council on what you heard and what you would like to see in the implementation of the set goals.
Please, let us start without long opening remarks.
<…>
Additional
Vladimir Putin toured social infrastructure facilities in Usman District, Lipetsk Region
January 22, 2020
See also
Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly
January 15, 2020
Geography
Lipetsk Region
Topics
Regions
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 22, 2020, 15:00
Text version