Events
Award ceremony for winners of 2019 Presidential Prize for Young Scientists
The ceremony to award the 2019 Presidential Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists was held at the Kremlin. Earlier Vladimir Putin signed an Executive Order on awarding the prize.
February 6, 2020
14:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
The prize is awarded for contribution to advancing Russian science, for creating new equipment and technology that can boost the innovative development of the economy and social sphere, as well as strengthen national defence.
The 2019 Presidential Prize was awarded to Alexander Veraksa, DSc in Psychology, for research of the cognitive development of children of preschool and school age; Sergei Makarov, DSc in Physics and Mathematics, for innovations in nanotechnology; and Marina Shirmanova, PhD in Biology, for achievements in the study of oncological processes.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
First of all, I would like to congratulate all of you and all those who work in the fields of science and university education. We are trying to combine these two fields today, and I hope that science will be developing at our universities. I would like to wish you all the very best on the upcoming Russian Science Day – all researchers, those who are here today and those who are not, everyone who is prepared to break new ground, make discoveries and peer into the unknown.
It has become a tradition to award state prizes in science and innovation to young scientists ahead of this day. It is notable that the number of nominees for the prize grows with every passing year, and ever more interesting and promising projects in the key spheres compete for the prize. This rich choice allows us to select the very best and most deserving projects. It also shows that the standards of research projects carried out by young people are becoming increasingly mature.
I have no doubt that the talent and enthusiasm of our young people can lead to a major breakthrough in the key spheres of technology in this decade and the 21st century as a whole. Of course, difficult and ambitious goals and an opportunity to come to the fore and play a crucial role in national development are very strong motives for anyone, but especially so for young people who choose the field of science. Very young people developed Siberia, discovered Antarctica, created nuclear and space projects and accomplished many other things.
You may have noticed that I said in my annual Address that there are many young people working in science. According to estimates, by the middle of the decade every second scientist in Russia will be under 40. Our academic community will be one of the youngest in the world.
This has been a trend for the past few years, and I hope it persists. Your energy coupled with talent and knowledge will certainly produce a positive result for the country.
To create conditions for the work and professional growth of your peers and the younger generation, the Government will continue to update the equipment of our research organisations and universities, as well as research infrastructure, including megascience-class facilities. Major funds – over 220 billion rubles – will be allocated under the Science national project. We are to launch the NICA collider in Dubna outside Moscow before the end of 2022 and the SKIF synchrotron in Novosibirsk by late 2023.
We are about to design and create an unparalleled installation that combines the capabilities of a synchrotron radiation source and a free-electron laser. This will make it possible for our country to conduct unmatched research in agriculture, next-generation materials and pharmaceuticals, as well as other areas that are critically important for technological development in Russia.
To reiterate, the tasks at hand are colossal. We can bring the future closer only if we combine our resources and create a proper environment for scholars, engineers and young researchers. Each of them should have an opportunity to draw closer to their discoveries through hard work, as well as mistakes, perhaps, which are part of the work, and the help of like-minded people and inspiration. The way our today's laureates did it. I am pleased to present the results of their work.
Success in overcoming modern technological and non-technology-related challenges depends on talents and unlocking each person’s potential and gifts starting from preschool age.
Continuing the glorious and internationally recognised traditions of the national school of educational psychology, prize-winner Alexander Veraksa has been studying for 15 years the cognitive and emotional development of children exposed to a turbulent digital and technological transformation environment.
Based on large-scale and extended research, the author has created a proprietary, individually tailored and ultimately effective education system. As far as I understand, this system can be used for a variety of school subjects ranging from PE to mathematics. Today, this method is widely used not only in our kindergartens and schools, but in other countries’ educational institutions as well.
Sergei Makarov’s work opens up vast prospects in many areas of research and technology. He came up with an innovative economical and, thus, widely usable, method for creating ultra-small optical devices. They are very small, but, as I understand, their potential is gigantic.
They will make it possible to significantly speed up information processing and reduce power consumption, which is important for this kind of systems, and to conduct quantum computing. In addition, these devices have successfully passed biomedical tests for conducting cellular level treatments and promoting solar energy. They are used to improve the performance of microscopes and other physical instruments.
Marina Shirmanova, a representative of an innovative school of research, which originated in Nizhny Novgorod thanks to a mega-grant programme, works at the junction of physics, biology and medicine. Innovative methods for studying malignant tumours are being successfully developed at the laboratory that she heads.
These methods make it possible to obtain knowledge about internal processes in the affected cells that was previously beyond reach and use it for targeted treatment choosing the most appropriate treatment method in each case, and effectively treating a variety of cancers.
I congratulate all the prize-winners. Thank you for your significant achievements that expand our capabilities, for your determination and dedication to research.
Congratulations!
<…>
See also
Winners of the 2019 Presidential Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists announced
February 3, 2020
See also
Winners of 2019 Presidential Prize in Science and Innovation for Young Scientists
February 3, 2020
Topics
Science and innovation
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 6, 2020, 14:40
Text versionEvents
Joint meeting of State Council Presidium and Presidential Council on Science and Education
At the Kremlin, Vladimir Putin chaired a joint meeting of the State Council Presidium and the Presidential Council on Science and Education.
February 6, 2020
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
At a joint meeting of State Council Presidium and Presidential Council on Science and Education.
The meeting was devoted to enhancing the role of the regions in training professionals for the economic and social sectors in accordance with the President’s May Executive Order and the Strategy for Scientific and Technological Development.
The focus will be on adjusting the system of vocational and higher education to economic requirements, expectations of the state and society, as well as the creation and introduction of novel methods of interaction between educational and academic organisations on the one hand and bodies of power at all levels and employers on the other, with a view to preserving and improving the country’s intellectual potential.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
You probably noticed that I raised many issues during my recent Address to the Federal Assembly, but one of them is especially important. It concerns all aspects of our demographic development.
It includes decent benefits for families with children, improving the healthcare and social infrastructure, the creation of new jobs in order to increase wages and real incomes, and, of course, the availability of equal and fair conditions for receiving a good modern education, so that the coming generations in Russia realise their huge potential.
The Government, the regions and municipal authorities must work consistently together with civil society and businesses in all spheres of demographic development, including education.
In this connection, I propose that the State Council convene at the beginning of the next academic year to discuss the further development of our general education system. As for our meeting today, which is attended by governors and members of the Council on Science and Education, we should use it to coordinate additional decisions to strengthen university education in the regions.
Of course, much has been accomplished in this field: high-performing federal and national research universities have been created and basic universities are being provided with assistance in over 30 regions.
However, there are still many unresolved problems. The greatest of them is the super-concentration of educational resources in Moscow and St Petersburg. They are home to over 200 universities, or more than 25 percent of the country’s universities, and this not counting their regional branches.
In some periods of our history back in the 19th and 20th centuries, this concentration was objective and possibly justified. But it has clearly become outsized, including because of the social and economic disproportions that developed by the turn of the 21st century. This has become a major challenge when it comes to balanced development throughout Russia.
But I will add right away that it would certainly be a crude mistake to deal with this problem “on command,” through strictly administrative means, to talk about lofty national interests and goals and to forget about life, about the teachers and the students themselves. Any talk of relocating Moscow or St Petersburg universities is certainly unacceptable.
At the same time, we must realise that far from all higher educational institutions in the regions can compete with those in the capitals. This is obvious at this point. They cannot compete in the quality of education and the qualifications of the teachers, not to mention the level of equipment. Laboratories and social facilities have become physically rundown and obsolete.
I understand the choice of many school graduates in the regions. They go to the capitals where education is better and life is more interesting. You and I are well aware of this. We know this. Young people often do not return to the places where they were born and grew up. In such cases, the regions lose the most precious things – talent, specialists, and the younger generation.
See also
Award ceremony for winners of 2019 Presidential Prize for Young Scientists
February 6, 2020
You know, there are appeals to return all universities to the system of assigning graduates to workplaces. I have heard this many times. They are made at almost every meeting with the public. But let me repeat that we will not resolve any problems with mandatory measures. Life has changed a lot. It is necessary to create conditions for the self-fulfillment of the young people, modern attractive standards of life and study, and opportunities to achieve success. These are the tasks we must deal with together.
Every year – starting in 2021 – we will increase the number of state-financed openings and give them to the universities in the regions, primarily those regions that need modern, young and promising personnel.
You all come from the regions of the Russian Federation and you know the demand for personnel there. Demand is continuously on the rise because of economic growth. In all, we are planning to allocate an additional 70 billion rubles for these purposes in four years. But this move alone is not enough.
I would like to ask the Government to implement a package of measures on modernising the entire system of higher education in the regions. Education oriented and other national projects must come under this overall goal. And, by the way, this work should include the development of infrastructure, the provision of amenities in cities and territories, and the launching of new production lines and investment projects. Of course, it is necessary to make much better use of the allocated resources.
I would like to repeat that even using all sectoral investment we will not change regional universities and will not raise them to a new level unless we achieve real positive change in local life. I would like the Government, regional governors and heads of municipalities to remember this.
Colleagues,
What are the specific measures that must be carried out as soon as possible but certainly with competence and with the utmost responsibility?
First, we need to keep closing dud universities of which there are still many. However, our goal is higher and more complicated than just getting rid of operations like that. It is important to consolidate the resource potential of education and research institutions and merge them legally where appropriate.
At the same time, I want to reiterate this is not about a purely mechanical merger. We must find solutions that will increase the prestige, the scholarly status and income of teachers and professors in the regions and significantly improve the quality of education and research at the universities. This calls for joint departments and laboratories and networking between research and education teams, as well as an advanced infrastructure, including co-working centres, scientific installations and databases.
We plan to finalise these kinds of managerial tools at the first five world-class research and education centres, the creation of which began last year in Perm Territory and Belgorod, Kemerovo, Nizhny Novgorod and Tyumen regions. Minister of Science and Higher Education and former rector of Tyumen University Valery Falkov is here today. I hope he will share his experience with us and use it in his new job.
Secondly, strong regional higher schools are all about the faculty, medical and engineering professionals, breakthrough solutions and designs and a constellation of innovative companies and start-up businesses and teams implementing social and cultural initiatives. The universities’ advanced infrastructure is a genuine driver for developing the urban environment.
In this regard, I propose upgrading and building modern campuses in the regions complete with classrooms, athletic facilities, technology parks, undergraduate and graduate student and teacher dormitories. In any case, we should start doing this.
Already this year, 22 billion rubles from the federal budget will be released for updating facilities and resources and overhauling university buildings. We should take a look at what portion of these funds can be used for renovating campuses.
Thirdly, to reiterate, we need to create a competitive network of regional universities to attract young people and strong professors. The Government has designated and is implementing this priority project, but we must remove all the barriers that prevent the regions and businesses from participating in this project, not in words, but in actions.
You are aware of the situation. The universities work for the region, the professors and students live there, the governors are aware of the problems facing educational institutions, but the thing is that another department, say, a federal department, is in charge of it. Therefore, a region may want to support a university, but bumps into budget legislation and risks being accused of misusing funds.
I agree with the proposal to provide the regions with the right to directly finance local universities’ development programmes and infrastructure regardless of departmental subordination, if resources are available.
In general, I believe it is important to give the regions the authority to promote not only colleges and technical schools, but also research and higher educational institutions located in their territories.
See also
Trip to Vologda Region
February 4, 2020
As you may know, in Cherepovets on Tuesday we saw what Russian companies are doing to develop an effective system for training personnel who meet the expectations of today’s employers. I have to say that the results we have seen are quite remarkable, and these practices deserve our attention. We need to support investment by entrepreneurs and Russian companies in education and science by offering new and better tools for enabling the state, the regions and business to work together.
Colleagues, the Russian higher education system in its entirety must keep pace with the ongoing swift technological and social changes, and be on the same wavelength with these developments. First and foremost, practising professionals working in the real economy, as well as young and inspired researchers and faculty must work at higher educational institutions. This primarily refers to the regions that really need to develop both their know-how and competence.
I would like to make a number of proposals to this effect. This year, we are expected to achieve 100 percent employer-sponsored education in medical residency training for the most in-demand programmes. We need to think about ways to update the system for training top-notch researchers and faculty in other key professions as well.
This means that postgraduate schools must undergo serious change by further expanding mechanisms for targeted recruitment. This way, postgraduate students will carry out research for a specific higher educational institution or research centre in the region. After completing their degree, students will go on to work there, create a school of research, new and relevant training programmes, and find practical applications for their inventions. This is essential. We need to ensure this link between research and education, on the one hand, and real life and manufacturing, on the other.
I have already issued an instruction in the follow-up to my Address to enable students to change their educational trajectory after two years of study, and enrol in related degree programmes, so that on top of fundamental theoretical knowledge they master a wide range of the latest essential skills they will need to succeed.
I also believe in the need to do away with requirements and regulations that are clearly excessive, to make educational standards more flexible and up-to-date, and the same relates to the classification of degree programmes and majors. We need to enable higher education institutions to develop educational programmes independently, depending on requests from the students and the needs of the regions, including as part of the so-called short-term educational programmes. This would enable students to learn additional skills, for example in entrepreneurship.
Let me emphasise that everything I am talking about directly applies to vocational training institutions as well. We need to keep up our efforts to modernise them, considering that skilled trade professions are subject to ever higher requirements and can go as far as requiring a higher education degree.
Before we start the discussion, there is one more thing I wanted to mention. We have young researchers here with us today who won prizes in science. I have recently had a meeting at the Sirius Educational Centre with its students and graduates, and met with students, postgraduates and faculty in Volgograd Region.
We have many talented, dedicated young people, and it is our duty to make sure that they stay here in Russia and achieve their full potential. For this reason, I believe that we need to offer greater incentives for excellence in research and creativity. This is what we will do in the near future.
I will now give the floor to Andrei Travnikov, who heads the working group. Mr Travnikov, the floor is yours.
<…>
Topics
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Science and Education, State Council
Publication date: February 6, 2020, 17:30
Text version