Events
Meeting with permanent members of Security Council
The President held a meeting on current issues with permanent members of Russian Security Council via videoconference.
July 24, 2020
15:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council (via videoconference).
To follow up on the Government's decision announced today to resume air services with a number of countries, the participants exchanged views on the progress of the corresponding talks with other states.
They also discussed Russia's relations with the CIS countries, including Azerbaijan and Armenia, mainly in the light of the recent aggravation on the border between these republics.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
reported on the preparations for the Naval Parade.
Vladimir Putin informed the meeting participants about his telephone conversation with the President of the United States the day before.
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov
, Defece Minister Sergei Shoigu, Federal Security Service Director Alexander Bortnikov
, Foreign Intelligence Service Director Sergei Naryshkin
and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Let us begin today's meeting, the conference of the permanent members of the Security Council. I would like to suggest discussing several matters today.
First of all, I would like to ask the Minister of Defence to report on the progress of the preparations for the Naval Parade. The entire country is waiting for this festive event, which will demonstrate not only the growing power of our Navy, but also hail the capabilities of our shipbuilders, which is extremely important for the development of the industry.
The second issue that I would like to discuss and would ask the Prime Minister to speak about is the progress of our negotiations with foreign partners regarding the summer tourist season. I am referring to the problems caused by the coronavirus infection, and the requirements the Government of the Russian Federation will adopt for foreign travel for the immediate future.
Finally, we will discuss our relations with some of the CIS countries and, importantly, the situation on the Armenian-Azerbaijani border, which is highly sensitive for us.
<…>
See also
Telephone conversation with US President Donald Trump
July 23, 2020
See also
News of the Security Council
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: July 24, 2020, 15:30
Text version