Events
Working meeting with Nizhny Novgorod Governor Gleb Nikitin
During a visit to the Russian Federal Nuclear Centre – National Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics in Sarov, the President had a working meeting with Nizhny Novgorod Governor Gleb Nikitin.
November 26, 2020
22:00
Sarov
With Nizhny Novgorod Governor Gleb Nikitin.
Gleb Nikitin Nikitin GlebGovernor of Nizhny Novgorod Region began by reporting on the coronavirus situation in the region, in particular, testing, the number of hospital beds, the construction of a new infectious diseases complex, and payments to medical and other personnel involved in combating the pandemic.
The Governor also spoke about the decision made to support economic stability, primarily when it comes to employment. He said that the unemployment rate in the region was 3.5 percent, which is lower than the country’s average. Some local industries reported a 5 to 20 percent growth, although the regional industry has declined, just as in the country as a whole, with the greatest decline reported in the automotive sector. On the other hand, investments have gone up; their physical volume has not decreased despite the economic hardships this year.
Speaking about future development, Gleb Nikitin pointed out that the region was on schedule in terms of financing national projects and continued working on the new instruments that could be used to accelerate the achievement of the national goals. In particular, he mentioned housing construction and spending under the Demography project.
In response to the President’s question about the environment, the Governor said the main project being implemented within the framework of the Ecology national project was the rehabilitation of the Volga and water purification facilities. It is an immensely significant project where huge funds are being invested. Another project important for the people is Clean Water, and, of course, the problem of landfills and clearing up the accumulated environmental damage.
Gleb Nikitin recalled that he had been appointed by the President to head the working group on Environment and Natural Resources and made a proposal to make an inventory of such facilities across the country. Inventories are planned in the region starting from 2022; between 2024 and 2030, it is envisaged that the liquidation of such facilities will be prioritised. Three such facilities are currently being liquidated in the region, and two others have essentially been liquidated already, he said.
The President expressed concern about the decreasing number of permanent residents in the region. The governor agreed that this problem was one of the main challenges. To address the situation, the quality of the environment needs to be improved and, most importantly, the people’s expectations need to be taken into account, their expectations of the future – what is happening in Nizhny Novgorod in comparison with what is happening in Moscow, around the country, and in the world. According to Gleb Nikitin, a comprehensive programme for the development of Nizhny Novgorod and its surroundings has been worked out.
He admitted that the pace of housing construction was insufficient, and spoke about plans to expedite it, in particular, about the need to develop new territories. This requires the construction of new bridges across the Volga and Oka, kindergartens, schools, a new motorway, a new avenue, as well as redevelopment of historical territories – this project is supported by the Russian Ministry of Economic Development. It envisages the redevelopment of a huge, 240-hectare area which is now packed with valuable urban facilities, and this implies a new level of investment development. There is also a need for a comprehensive transformation of the transport system; this project has already been worked out as well. Research and expert work has been carried out in order to minimise the costs to budgets of all levels.
All these projects are expected to yield a tangible effect: 692 billion rubles in 30 years to the state coffers. They are now being coordinated with the Presidential Executive Office, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Oreshkin Oreshkin MaximAide to the President and Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin Khusnullin MaratDeputy Prime Minister .
See also
Working trip to Sarov
November 26, 2020
Geography
Nizhny Novgorod Region
Topics
Healthcare
Regions
Persons
Nikitin Gleb
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 26, 2020, 22:00
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/64501
Text versionEvents
Opening ceremony for large-scale pharmaceutical production facility
Vladimir Putin attended, via videoconference, the opening ceremony for a new large-scale pharmaceutical substances facility at the BratskChemSyntez factory of the Pharmasyntez Group of Companies.
November 26, 2020
12:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 5
Vladimir Putin attended, via videoconference, the opening ceremony for a new large-scale pharmaceutical substances facility at the BratskChemSyntez factory of the Pharmasyntez Group of Companies.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
I am delighted to welcome you, especially for a positive event, because today a new modern facility for the production of pharmaceutical substances is opening at BratskChemSyntez factory, a facility of the Pharmasyntez Group located where you are now in Irkutsk Region.
I would like to begin by saying that increasing the capabilities of the national pharmaceutical industry, to which we have always given serious priority, is of vital significance for the country and the people, especially at this time, as we are all aware. Therefore, first of all I would like to thank all those who were involved in the implementation of this large-scale project.
The Minister and the Prime Minister told me just the other day about the company, this facility and your capabilities.
The new facility that is being launched today will allow us to increase the production of effective high-quality medications, including those used in the treatment of the coronavirus, tuberculosis, diabetes, hepatitis and other serious diseases. People need these medications virtually every day.
I would like to point out that your company is greatly contributing to the replacement of imported medications and increasing their affordability for people.
Last but not least, the development of such high-tech pharmaceutical facilities brings about new jobs, greater demand for forward-looking technologies and the products of our research teams, stronger export positions for Russia and, of course, growth zones in the regions.
We will continue to support such projects and set such objectives to our development institutions.
We have been implementing a programme for the development of our pharmaceutical industry for many years, and I know that it has been quite effective in your case and has provided the necessary assistance. I hope you will talk about this today.
We must continue creating comfortable, stable and predictable conditions for the work of businesses and investors in this sphere, for partnership between our companies and with foreign partners, and we must also establish platforms for the work of our researchers and educational centres. All of this is a very large and vitally important complex for the nation.
In conclusion, I would like to once again thank you all for the results of your work. And of course, I would like to wish you every success and all the best.
Go ahead, please.
Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
: Mr President,
You described the expansion of domestic pharmaceutical production as the main goal for the development of the pharmaceutical industry as early as in 2015. Now we are facing the task of mastering the full-scale manufacture of 215 strategically important medications from the new list that has recently been approved by the Government. We are already producing more than half of these substances.
We managed to achieve a similar result with a much broader range – life-critical medications. Almost half of them are also fully based on domestic primary products and are now being produced by over 40 Russian companies.
As you know, Mr President, we are paying special attention to new projects that allow us to increase the level of localisation and broaden the range of domestically produced medications as much as possible. In the past three years, about 4 billion rubles of budget investment have been directed towards such projects via a state programme and development institutions. In addition, companies invested about 5 billion from their own funds for this purpose.
By launching new capacity, this company alone will be able to achieve a fivefold increase in production. As for the range of pharmaceuticals produced by that company in general, their sectoral amount will instantly double. I am referring to the 32 socially important medications that you have mentioned that have already been produced: TB, hepatitis, and diabetes as well as 15 items that the company will manufacture next April for cancer treatment.
At the same site, the company is launching the synthesis of substances for anti-COVID medications. Owing to its new capacities, the company will produce over 100,000 packs of the much sought after favipiravir by the end of December. Next year, it will be able to produce about 600,000 packs of this medication.
The company is also ready to produce at least nine tonnes of substances for antibiotics a year.
The company is planning to master the production of several new items from the recent list of medications recommended for treating COVID. President of the Pharmasyntez Group of Companies Vikram Punia will report on this.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Punia, please.
President of the Pharmasyntez Group of Companies Vikram Punia: Good afternoon, Mr President.
I would like to begin by thanking you for finding the opportunity to attend the opening ceremony of the BratskChemSyntez pharmaceutical substances facility.
For any producer of finished pharmaceutical products, the production of pharmaceutical substances amounts to moving up to a higher level. Synthesising raw materials is a much more complicated job than producing finished medications. In our case, it was an immensely difficult job indeed, because the company only produced finished medications before and did not have the synthesis competencies: we did not have the necessary technology or personnel to do this. In fact, we had to create a new culture, the culture of producing high-tech pharmaceutical substances.
Actually, we had been working on this project for five years. We cooperated with universities, institutes and various other partners through the Industry and Trade Ministry and other institutions. Eventually we reached our goal: today we are ready to launch a large-scale facility for the production of pharmaceutical substances.
We can turn out modern substances for the production of antiviral medicines such as Favipiravir, Lopinavir and Ritonavir, as well as antibacterial medication such as Linezolid, Levofloxacin and Moxifloxacin. Incidentally, these medications have been recommended by the Healthcare Ministry for the treatment of COVID-19.
In my opinion, BratskChemSyntez is a kind of a springboard for us, because the new facility can produce approximately 100 tonnes of substances a year. With this knowledge, and aware of the manufacturing difficulties this entails, we are preparing to design a new facility with the capacity of over 1,000 tonnes of pharmaceutical substances. Mr President, this is more than 8 percent of the substances the country is using now.
Of course, we have achieved these results thanks to state assistance. In particular, I would like to express gratitude to the Russian Government and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. We received various forms of support, including a lease payment subsidy, a subsidy from the Irkutsk Region administration, connection to power lines, the construction of roads towards the factory, and so on. In addition, the Industrial Development Fund allocated us the country’s first loan worth 300 million rubles at a very low interest. These factors will have a powerful effect on our further development.
Mr President, I have one more request for you. In fact, as you know, according to the results of the Pharma-2020 state programme, significant progress has been made in the country's pharmaceutical industry. If we look at where we were in 2010 and where we are now, these are two completely different levels. We have achieved so much, real success, especially in generic drugs manufacturing, and as you know, more than 80 percent of vital drugs are now made in the Russian Federation.
Mr President, as someone familiar with the industry, I would like to suggest that we continue this progress – and the progress can only continue if we adopt the Pharma-2030 programme in full, the way it was written by the pharmaceutical community and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Because I am sure, again, as someone competent in the pharmaceutical industry, I can say with confidence that if the Pharma-2030 programme is implemented, Russia will become one of the leaders among the biggest pharmaceutical powers. I can say this with certainty, with over 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
I have looked at your company’s work. We are always watching the pharmaceutical industry of course, but your company, indeed, focusing mainly on generics, is increasingly developing its own facilities and expanding the capacity for original projects. This is very important because it consolidates our independence, especially with regard to vital drugs. Indeed, I am looking through my reference here, you already manufacture 170 types of medicines and indeed, I can confirm, 80 percent of those are on the list of vital and essential drugs.
There is something I would like to thank you for especially – the facilities established in various Russian cities, not only in Irkutsk Region, where you are located, but also in Ussuriysk, Tyumen, St Petersburg and Bratsk. You started preparing the expansion before (you have been on the market for a long time), but this large internal development programme did not start until 2014. I know that you plan to reach full capacity at this facility in 2021.
But you are certainly right: we need to extend the pharmaceutical industry’s development programme. We formulated this programme, and the Minister said that we started drafting it in 2015–2016. Is that so, Mr Manturov?
Denis Manturov: In 2010, Mr President. You set us the task of starting with generics. In 2015, you instructed us to start converting to original medications and, most importantly, substances.
Vladimir Putin: That is clear. When did we allocate the funding? When was this programme formulated?
Denis Manturov: Since 2010.
Vladimir Putin: That is right.
Of course, we should now think what we are going to do until 2030, and how. We must certainly do this, and this is a good proposal. So, we will certainly think about this together with you and your colleagues overseeing the Russian pharmaceutical industry.
Mr Kobzev, you have the floor.
Irkutsk Region Governor Igor Kobzev
: Mr President,
Production facilities have reached design capacity, and this is an important milestone in the history of the enterprise and Irkutsk Region, but also, considering the scale, of the entire national pharmaceutical sector.
We are particularly pleased to note that Irkutsk Region is home to these high-level production facilities. This means not only jobs, employment, but a positive social environment in Bratsk. The 150 people already working at these enterprises support 150 families who are raising children and building a future. The number of jobs will eventually reach 250.
Today, the development of enterprises creating modern jobs and providing social support for employees is the foundation of any region’s socioeconomic development. We aim to establish and expand new production facilities and projects. This will make it possible to strengthen the region’s economy, to create thousands of jobs and give young people a good start in their lives and careers.
Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to thank you, the Government of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and Mr Manturov personally, and our investors, including Vikram Punia, for paying special attention to Irkutsk Region and for quickly resolving matters at this difficult time for all of us.
Thank you. I would like to congratulate everyone once again.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Manturov, you have the floor.
Denis Manturov: Mr President, please allow us to launch production.
Vladimir Putin: You can begin.
Congratulations once again, everybody.
As far as I know, the first stage was designed to manufacture ten tonnes of medications. The second stage, to be completed in 2021, is to produce 120 tonnes and 45 types of medications. This is a serious step forward. I expect that we will together do everything possible to take this step. As our colleague has just noted, we will think about the subsequent steps of the entire national pharmaceutical industry until 2030.
Congratulations once again, and I wish you all the best.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Irkutsk Region
Topics
Industry
Medicines
Regions
Persons
Kobzev Igor
Manturov Denis
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 26, 2020, 12:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting on eliminating damage to environment in Usolye-Sibirskoye
The President held a videoconference on eliminating the accumulated damage to the city of Usolye-Sibirskoye in Irkutsk Region.
November 26, 2020
21:00
Sarov
2 of 4
At a meeting on eliminating damage to environment in Usolye-Sibirskoye (via videoconference).
The meeting took place at the Russian Federal Nuclear Centre – the National Research Institute of Experimental Physics, which the President visited during his working trip to Sarov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Last summer, I believe it was in July, we discussed the environmental situation in Usolye-Sibirskoye. Due to the chemical waste accumulated there for decades, since the Soviet times, the situation was very dangerous and posed a great threat to nature, and, most importantly, to the people, to the health of tens of thousands of people living not only in the city but also in the adjacent territories and settlements. The scale of the problem required the involvement of federal government bodies.
Following that meeting, we adopted a number of decisions – both urgent and system-wide, of a long-term nature. Priority was given to measures on decontaminating the dangerous facilities and protecting the people while ensuring the continuous operation of the municipal economy, preserving employment for the entrepreneurs working on this territory as well as workers, the people who live there.
As we agreed, later it will be necessary to conduct serious well-coordinated work on eliminating the dangerous facilities, thoroughly clean and reclaim the polluted lands and water sources and, what is very important, to create conditions for the sustainable long-term socioeconomic development of Usolye-Sibirskoye.
An interdepartmental working group headed by [Deputy Prime Minister] Viktoria Abramchenko has been created to this end, and the Defence Ministry and the Emergencies Ministry’s forces and resources have been mobilised. The National Guard has been brought in to guard the facilities as well. A roadmap for neutralising hazardous chemicals and structurally deficient storage facilities has been approved, and the necessary budget funds and resources have been set aside.
The key role in dealing with the aftereffects went to Rosatom; this is why the head of Rosatom is here with me in the office. Taking into account its expertise and unique competencies, Rosatom obtained the mandate as the sole contractor for all work in Usolye-Sibirskoye. Today, we are meeting in this format precisely because my colleagues and I are sitting in one of Rosatom’s most important and largest facilities.
To reiterate, we should not confine ourselves to decontaminating the grounds of the facility in Usolye-Sibirskoye. I am aware that Rosatom’s plans include creating a modern environmentally-safe production and industrial complex, which will be instrumental in opening modern enterprises and creating new well-paid jobs for the local residents. Overall, this should give a strong boost to developing Usolye-Sibirskoye.
I would like to emphasise once again that all of us present at this meeting must keep this situation under personal control at all times, and I plan to do the same, because this is an emergency situation. Almost each of you reported about the developments in your area of responsibility. This is a grave situation, and this project cannot be approached just as another project in progress.
Today, I would like to hear your reports on the current activities, as well as what additional measures you think should be taken in order for us to achieve our goals.
Let's get started.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: In conclusion I would like to say the following.
First of all, I would like to thank all of you for your contribution, primarily Ms Abramchenko for actively taking on this job and for properly organising all the necessary activities.
Indeed, over a short period of time all bodies of power have joined this project, with experts, researchers and ecologists being involved as well. This consolidated joint work is producing certain results. It boils down to localising and clearing up the most dangerous objects. This is the most important part, of course. The spread of the toxic patch and the movement of chemicals into water bodies have been stopped. Otherwise, the consequences would have been unpredictable. Essentially, you have prevented the risk of a real environmental disaster, if not catastrophe. This is the main thing.
As a result of these efforts, a direct threat to the lives and health of the people living here has been lifted. I hope that this is so. I can see that this is so from all the documents and reports, yet I would like to repeat what I said at the beginning: we must not slacken our efforts. I can see on the picture here that the barrier which Rosatom is erecting will cut the patch off from the river, but it has approached very, very closely. The situation is very serious.
At the least, a failure of the city’s life support systems has been prevented, which is very important as well.
I would like to once again thank all those who have been working on this, including the Defence Ministry, the Emergencies Ministry and, of course, Rosatom specialists.
We talked about this today as well, but I would like to say the following in conclusion of this meeting. There are problems, large-scale problems that must be addressed, which is obvious. I would like to ask Ms Abramchenko and the interdepartmental working group to keep the situation under control at all times. We must not slacken out efforts to settle the environmental problems and continue monitoring the situation there.
As for Rosatom, I would like to ask it to continue with its comprehensive rehabilitation efforts and to attract additional funds and resources, if necessary.
(Addressing Rosatom CEO Alexei Likhachev.) The proposal you have advanced here for creating an eco-tech park is, of course, a good idea, and it was logical that the mayor has taken notice of it. Additional funds and resources must be invested in the city to create conditions for a normal life and jobs for the people, who are waiting for us to do this. I hope that Rosatom’s experience and competencies will be used to attain this goal, to ensure an ethical use and recycling of the materials that have been accumulated in various industrial sectors.
I have no doubt that all these measures will allow us to create a safe and comfortable living environment for the people who live there, as well as the basis for the advanced socioeconomic development of Usolye-Sibirskoye. This is what the city mayor, Mr Maxim Toropkin, who certainly represents the opinion of city residents, has said just now.
I would like to wish all of you success in implementing your plans on schedule. If you come across any unexpected problems, please do not hesitate to raise them at the Government level, and I, of course, will be on hand and will get involved as soon as necessary.
I would like to thank all of you. See you at the next meeting on this issue.
All the best.
See also
Working trip to Sarov
November 26, 2020
See also
Meeting on ecological situation in Usolye-Sibirskoye
July 30, 2020
Geography
Irkutsk Region
Nizhny Novgorod Region
Topics
Environment
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 26, 2020, 21:00
Text version