Events
Meeting with permanent members of Security Council
The President held a meeting, via videoconference, with permanent members of the Security Council.
June 11, 2020
16:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting with permanent members of Security Council (via videoconference).
Taking part in the videoconference were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
, and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
As usual, we will discuss current matters related to domestic and international security, as well as developments around the world, beyond our borders.
However, I would like to begin with preparations for the parade marking the Victory in the Great Patriotic War. We have discussed a number of possible modalities for holding this celebration.
I can see that Mr Lavrov has already informed his colleagues on how we will work with our foreign partners. But my first question will be for Mr Shoigu.
Mr Shoigu, how have the Defence Ministry and the detachments that will take part in the parade approached preparations, and how are the Victory Parade rehearsals progressing?
Minister of Defence Sergei Shoigu: Mr President, we launched these preparations on June 2, strictly in keeping with the plan and your instructions. These preparations are proceeding in full compliance with the time plan.
In view of the persisting threats related to the fact that many people find themselves concentrated in the same place, we have prepared separate accommodation facilities for everyone, with regular, daily decontamination and sanitation. Moreover, all the participants were tested and underwent all the necessary medical procedures before joining the preparations.
In addition to this, medical brigades carry out daily testing and examine every single person in every accommodation unit for service personnel taking part in the parade.
We had three rehearsals already. Mr President, this year I believe there will be a lot of machinery, and quite a few new models, new weaponry that have already entered service or are about to be transferred to the army. This relates to aircraft, ground-based weaponry and missile defence systems. All these are at the storage facilities, on full combat alert. Some 30 T-34 tanks will roll through Red Square for the first time since the parade that included actual Great Patriotic War combat machines. These tanks embody our Victory.
There will be 75 aircraft. We have selected and examined their crews, and training sessions continue. This applies to long-range and strategic aircraft, attack bombers, fighter jets, and of course helicopters. All these aircraft are actual combat machines, not just some kind of special aircraft that were sitting there and waiting for their moment to come. We took them from combat divisions. The same applies to most of the crews, with the only exception being our air display teams that are staffed with pilot school students.
Everything will be definitely ready for the parade, Mr President.
End of report. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
We will continue discussing preparations for the parade in the future. Thank you for your report.
Mr Lavrov, the pandemic has understandably changed the way we prepare for these celebrations, including our contacts, and how we work with our foreign friends, colleagues and partners.
What is the situation today? Since, of course, we need to make sure that we guarantee absolute safety for our guests, what is going on in this regard?
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov: Mr President, we confirmed with all those who were invited to the parade initially scheduled to take place on May 9 that our invitation still stands. We have already received confirmations from 12 heads of state, most of them from the CIS.
<…>
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: June 11, 2020, 16:30
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Penza Region Governor Ivan Belozertsev
The Penza Region Head informed the President about the local socioeconomic situation. The meeting took place via videoconference.
June 11, 2020
15:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
The regional socioeconomic situation depends on the efficiency of measures to combat the coronavirus infection, Mr Belozertsev
said. As of today, the region has recorded 3,317 coronavirus cases, and 2,641 people have recovered. Unfortunately, 28 people have passed away. The region has received substantial assistance from the federal budget. Over 520 million rubles was spent on purchasing and equipping hospital beds, buying medical equipment and disposable materials. Another 250 million rubles was allocated from the regional budget, and medical workers have received their support payments in full and on time.
The pandemic highlighted the need to reorganise many medical institutions. The Penza regional hospital needs urgent updating. The Governor asked the President for support in allocating federal funding for this project. Vladimir Putin promised to issue the relevant instruction to the Government.
Mr Belozertsev spoke of the region’s efforts to minimise the pandemic’s impact on the regional economy. A regional business support package was passed and is now being implemented. Families with children are also receiving their support payments. Regarding the labour market, about 18,000 unemployed people are registered in the region. At the same time, there are over 10,000 vacancies, primarily in the agricultural, social, healthcare, housing/utilities and construction sectors.
Agricultural companies, as well as production facilities fulfilling state defence contracts and export-oriented businesses continued operating, while adhering to strict sanitary standards.
In 2019, gross agricultural output topped 103 billion rubles. For example, the agro-industrial holding company Damate ranks among the ten largest global turkey meat processors and exports its meat products to 27 countries. Total project investment volumes exceeded 60 billion rubles. At the end of the year the region is to open the largest Russian and European turkey meat processing plant with a daily capacity of 300 tonnes; investment volumes are estimated at 9 billion rubles.
Rusmolco is another major regional investor. Over the past five years, it has invested over 18 billion rubles into the regional economy. Earlier this year, the company launched a large dairy production farm that is turning out 380 tonnes of milk daily or 38 percent more than in the same period in 2019.
According to the Governor, the region’s industrial output increased by 5 percent last year. The region received investment worth over 90 billion rubles. It ranked among leading Russian territories in terms of implemented large-scale investment projects. The region launched Europe’s largest foam rubber plant and will start Europe’s largest mattress plant this October.
In the first quarter of 2020, regional exports increased by over 77 percent compared to the same period last year.
The Governor also noted some problems in the region, including demographics, low average income and utility infrastructure problems. The Penza Region Government and the heads of municipalities are working to resolve them.
The President noted some other problems including a budget deficit, high regional debt that should be eliminated, a declining population, a road system in bad shape, and a rundown housing and utility infrastructure.
At the same time, the President noted the region’s achievements, including a substantial increase in agricultural output, greater fixed capital investment volumes, expanded industrial output and construction volumes.
Mr Belozertsev said he would like to consolidate this positive regional development trend and make it sustainable and irreversible. In this connection, he asked Vladimir Putin to show support for him and for his intention to run in the upcoming gubernatorial election.
Vladimir Putin said Mr Belozertsev had a moral right to run for Penza Region Governor again after presenting the results of his work to the people. But it is necessary to work directly with voters, with the people, to show them what has been accomplished and to note any setbacks in an objective manner. The President wished every success to Mr Belozertsev.
Geography
Penza Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Belozertsev Ivan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 11, 2020, 15:00
Text version