Events
Meeting with President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Sergeyev
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Sergeyev to discuss the implementation of the state science and technology policy and the Academy’s efforts to counter COVID-19.
September 28, 2020
17:00
Sochi
2 of 3
With President of Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Sergeyev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sergeyev, I know that your colleagues in the Academy have prepared an annual report on the technology policy. Let us start with this report and then discuss other issues.
President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Sergeyev
: Thank you very much, Mr President, for this opportunity to meet with you.
Indeed, in accordance with the law on the Russian Academy of Sciences, we issue an annual report on the implementation of the state science and technology policy and the biggest achievements of Russian scientists. You can review them in this digest.
I would like to present several of the most important achievements of the previous year. Obviously, the circumstances this year are substantially different, and I should tell you about the Academy’s involvement in countering COVID-19. I will tell you about some interesting results we have concerning coronavirus tests, vaccines and medication.
And finally, I would like to discuss a very pressing issue – namely, scientific and technical expert review. As a matter of fact, our country is involved in some large-scale projects. We have national projects and a development strategy for various sectors of the economy. More often than not, they rely on modern technology and science.
Therefore, we believe that when it comes to scientific and scientific and technical expert reviews, we must ensure greater competence and higher objectivity. Since the Russian Academy of Sciences is our main research and expert organisation, I would like to discuss the following: the Academy should be able to not only review a great number of small projects (we conducted almost 18,000 expert reviews last year) but also take up serious expert responsibilities.
We think it is time to discuss the development of a project on scientific and technical expert reviews in the country, a project that would outline the responsibilities of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Of course, this work must, by all means, rely on modern technologies. Processes like collecting scientific and technical data, analysing the data and possible uses for the results of such analysis have significantly changed due to the fact that we have powerful computers and database management systems. These factors must be taken into account.
We are currently working with several organisations and institutes in the country on developing a fundamental basis for scientific and technical expert reviews. Among other things, this challenge comes down to infrastructure. So, I will also talk about some issues related to the infrastructure and ask for your assistance.
Vladimir Putin: Okay. What about the Academy’s work on countering COVID-19?
Alexander Sergeyev: I have a presentation on this matter.
I realise that you understand the situation quite well. Every day we see you holding meetings, and you do demonstrate excellent knowledge of the issue. But when it comes to some fundamental issues, we see problems that need to be addressed. These problems concern scientific research and organisation. I will first briefly review the achievements and then ask for your assistance with the problems.
Vladimir Putin: Alright.
<…>
Topics
Science and innovation
Persons
Sergeyev Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2020, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev.
September 28, 2020
18:00
Sochi
2 of 2
Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Artemyev, I know that you wanted to report to me on some issues related to the sale of state property and the work of foreign operators in our market. Let’s start with the first issue. Go ahead, please.
Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Igor Artemyev: Thank you very much for this meeting, Mr President.
I would like to say that we have 50 laws and regulations on the sale of property, and any property – be it confiscated goods, forest or other land, or any other state property – is sold under different procedures. Notices on these sales are published in the middle of nowhere and even an experienced tracker cannot find these announcements. As a result, everything ends up in the hands of certain individuals and little goes to the treasury.
To begin with, there is an easy way out of this: the creation of an integrated website on the sale of state property. In general, if the state decides to sell a property, what is the main goal? To sell it for more money.
Vladimir Putin: Of course, to make more money for the treasury.
Igor Artemyev: If there are any defence or security restrictions, Law No. 57 works well to impose them.
This has been going on for 20 years. In principle, we have prepared a short draft law on competition for the Government. It is enough to introduce just five lines into these 50 legislative acts and accomplish a very simple goal. First, every sale needs to be posted online in an e-format – either through an e-tender or an e-auction with bidding – and any individual or company should be able to read about the sale of a property under any legislation on a single (integrated) website. And many buyers collect whole pools. Say, someone wants a property with a water area, and a house that includes some forestland. Where will they collect all these properties? On different websites? They will buy a plot of land in a different place, water area will be located elsewhere, and so on.
For example, I have never seen a notice on the sale of confiscated goods or material evidence with expired period of storage in my life, like limousines and dachas. Where are they?
But once we really had such a case and opened it officially. A Lamborghini was sold to an individual for 100,000 rubles. Of course, it was returned to the treasury but this is a fact.
In the past few years, Rosimushchestvo (the Federal Agency for State Property Management) has carried out several interesting and positive initiatives, but to resolve this problem once and for all, I would like to ask you, Mr President, to support this initiative. The Government has dealt with it. The only question is whether to introduce these five lines into the law on competition or create a separate law. The Government will decide this.
Vladimir Putin: This is a technical issue. On the whole, this is absolutely the right thing to do and modern electronic tools make it possible to do it fairly quickly and efficiently.
Igor Artemyev: Thank you very much.
Now the second question, and it is not even so much about communications providers. In the past few years, we have opened big cases against Google, Apple and Microsoft. They violate any regulation they can and do it deliberately. In the case of Google, the court passed several verdicts in favour of the Russian Federation. We had to follow them for two and a half years to make them fulfil our instructions.
Vladimir Putin: What exactly did they violate?
Igor Artemyev: The problem was that they preinstalled their applications and did not allow Russian designers to access their platform. In other words, we were not allowed to install our platforms there even if we wanted to.
Vladimir Putin: But this is simply a violation of the principles of competition.
Igor Artemyev: Of course. After we did this, within two years, the European Commission fined these companies $5 billion for this. So, we must curb this, effectively. We have proposals on how this can be done.
There is yet another aspect that concerns every citizen. In cooperation with Rospotrebnadzor (the Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare) we conducted the following research over the past eighteen months: we decide to compare original goods sold in Western Europe with the same item sold in Russia. The goods were called “original,” which means they were supposed to be the same no matter whether they were sold in Western Europe or Russia. What’s the difference? Using chemical and organoleptic techniques we established that in many cases dishonest companies – and we checked many firms – send us surrogates. To check the chemical composition we simply used a chromatograph. It is very easy to compare these goods with the original products. So we buy goods, bring them here, and then we buy them in Russia and they look the same but the actual content is very different.
We opened the first three cases in cooperation with Rospotrebnadzor. We now inspect alcohol, beer and food – all imports – and we intend to continue this.
Vladimir Putin: You don’t want to mention the names of the companies that were involved in these discrepancies now, do you?
Igor Artemyev: These are Henkel and Lindt that makes chocolate and detergents and many others.
Vladimir Putin: All right. You can tell us about this in more detail now.
Igor Artemyev: Thank you.
<…>
Persons
Artemyev Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2020, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Expanded State Council Presidium meeting
The President held a videoconference meeting of the State Council Presidium on implementing the Executive Order on national development goals until 2030.
September 28, 2020
20:00
Sochi
2 of 3
Expanded State Council Presidium meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues,
Today, we are holding an expanded State Council Presidium meeting with the regional governors, Government members and heads of State Council working groups.
To begin, I would like to congratulate you on an anniversary, September 1: the State Council in its current form observed its 20th anniversary.
Let me remind you that this body was established at the proposal of the MPs and governors of the Russian regions, and since then has played an important, I’d say even strategic role in the system of government bodies, as well as in drafting legislative initiatives and implementing practical measures “on the ground,” so to speak, in the regions and even the municipalities of Russia.
I would like to emphasise that it is impossible to make strategic decisions in such a large, complicated, versatile and multi-ethnic country as Russia without relying on the opinion of the regions, without understanding their basic specific features and without feedback. I would like to note that the regional aspect of the development has been historically inherent in Russian statehood.
At one time, even in the Russian Empire, a unitary country by nature, fairly flexible, unconventional managerial methods were used as regards different administrative and ethnic territories, which made it possible to consider their peculiarities, and we must follow these principles even more in our federative state. Let me repeat that the State Council has a great role to play in this respect.
The State Council has acquired new status in this anniversary year, which was fixed in the country’s basic law – the Constitution of the Russian Federation.
I believe this decision will have a positive effect on the activities of the authorities at all levels and will give them an extra boost both in resolving current issues and in pursuing our long-term plans.
Today, with the regions, we will discuss an issue that is largely mapping out Russia’s progress and will shape Russia’s development in the years to come. It sets the rate and quality of joint work to be done by the state, business and public organisations, goals that target the improvement of life for our country’s citizens.
This issue concerns our national goals, the fine-tuning of the key tools for achieving them, national projects with a view to a high rate of change in the country and globally, new demands from our citizens and experience acquired in recent years, and objective trends in the economy and social sphere. I mean, among other things, the challenges facing Russia and our entire civilisation during the coronavirus pandemic.
I would like to stress once again that the fight against this epidemic is far from over, it is ongoing. We cannot relax and let our guard down.
I would like to address all of our people again. Friends, the risks persist. I want to ask you to remember this and show the utmost responsibility for yourselves and those near you. I ask you to follow all the recommendations from the doctors and specialists. We need this for safety, to protect your health.
Now we know much more about this dangerous disease than we did just a few months ago. We know how to respond and how to build up preventive measures. But now the outcome of our common efforts on fighting the spread of the virus depends on everyone so that we won’t have to resort to large-scale restrictions like we did in the spring, as I said recently; a practice that leaves the economy vulnerable and that is a burden for everyone.
Of course, despite the current difficulties, we need to look forward and set long-term goals in all areas that influence the life and well-being of an individual and their family; and to ensure more efficiency and effectiveness in every area of our work in a bid to not just reach formal indicators but to make sure that people’s lives are improving. I have also talked about this on more than one occasion.
Last July, we discussed this subject in detail at a meeting of the Council for Strategic Development and National Projects. As you know, following that, a Presidential Executive Order was signed, which sets development priorities for our country for the next decade. So, we extended the planning time-frame until 2030.
I want to note that all of our national targets remain unchanged, despite all the current difficulties. Let me remind you that these include five key areas: preserving the health and well-being of all people, creating a comfortable and safe environment for living, enhancing the economy, and opening new opportunities for people to realise their potential, as well as the broad introduction of digital technologies in all areas.
The Government was instructed to work with the State Council to revise national projects and finalise the indicators by the end of October. It is clear what is behind the need to revise them, considering the current difficulties I just mentioned. We also need to create an updated system for the oversight of and joint and coordinated work on national projects.
To avoid wasting time, as I also mentioned, so that now and right from the beginning of next year we can engage in active work, the regions need to know what specific tasks have been assigned to them, how the implementation of these tasks will be monitored and what activities will be funded and the amount of funding.
Unfortunately, not all indicators and parameters have been provided to the regional management teams yet. I want to ask the Government to do this as soon as possible.
On the whole, a lot has been done in recent months, it is true. The Government has considered many proposals for the revision of national projects put forward by the regions.
However, there are still many topics for discussion, controversial issues. I hope that our discussion today will be as substantive as possible, when all the problematic points, the risks of achieving national goals are outlined openly, without embellishment or watering-down.
Only in this case, colleagues, will we be able to come up with concrete and effective solutions and clearly highlight key points, so that, I repeat, we can set a fast pace for our joint work. Already in 2021, there should be a high-quality, tangible result for each of the national goals.
At the same time, I want to emphasise: we should not put off addressing complex, systemic problems until later: ”Now we will do something easier, and later…“ So that it does not happen as people say: later never comes. To keep the work going. I repeat once more: do not put off what we have to do today. And these tasks should not be delayed until 2024. We should not to try to make our life easier and to reduce work requirements by planning simple, light tasks for the coming years. We will not solve the difficult ones then.
Before starting the discussion, I would like to emphasise the following. I have said more than once that the main activities of national projects happen in the regions. It is here, in the cities, in the villages of our country, that real, positive changes must be achieved.
Therefore, the initiative, the priority and weighty say in the additional adjustment of national projects should belong to the Russian regions, which see the situation on the ground, having almost two years of experience in the implementation of national projects. Accordingly, they can clarify, detail the tasks faced by our country as a whole, as well as specify the tools for their implementation. They can propose their own, new approaches to those solutions, which unfortunately turned out to be ineffective and therefore require adjustment and even revision.
It is precisely such meaningful proposals that I hope to hear from the heads of the State Council working groups today.
It is extremely important to know where, on what areas we need to focus first. In particular, the regions should be able to manoeuvre their funds and, of course, we need a clear understanding of how the financial and budgetary interaction of the regions and the centre will work in general in 2021 and in subsequent years.
As a reminder: the successful achievement of national goals, improving the quality of life of people is the key benchmark, the key tool for assessing the efficiency of both the Federal Government and the regional governing bodies. This is why I ask everyone to act in concert, constructively, as a team. This requirement concerns, among other things, regional offices of many federal agencies.
I will use the example of a crucial and comprehensive area like housing construction.
We have set a benchmark, and we must achieve this level (I am perfectly aware and realise that this is a difficult benchmark), we must strive to make it so that at least 5 million Russian families improve their housing conditions every year, so they can move into new, more comfortable and spacious housing and apartments. To achieve this, we must increase housing construction volumes to 120 million square metres per year. Colleagues, you know this very well as we have repeatedly talked about it. Let me remind you that last year about 80 million square metres of housing were commissioned.
Under the current uneasy conditions we, nevertheless, supported the construction industry which is unquestionably one of the key industries in the entire economy. According to expert forecasts, this year the volume of mortgage loans issued will be higher than last year. Thus our support efforts on the whole – I want to stress this, on the whole – are working and bringing the results we need.
Naturally, supplies must grow to maintain long-term sustainability in the market. Which means we have to build more to ensure a choice of housing and maintain a price balance, to avoid unjustified price hikes.
Stepping up housing construction is a task for all levels of government, for all governing structures and mainly for the regions and municipalities that are responsible for preparing development sites and of course, improving the grounds around new residential buildings and creating comfortable living conditions for the people.
I remind the heads of the regions of their personal responsibility for increasing the volumes of modern quality housing construction. We must use new allotments for housing construction and to develop the infrastructure. The regions, federal authorities, development institutions and infrastructure companies must closely cooperate on this.
We also need to use extra-budgetary financing for engineering, transport and social infrastructure: roads and railway stations, utility networks and substations, kindergartens and schools, and so on.
We have repeatedly discussed the use of infrastructure bonds. The Government and our companies have already tried and tested this mechanism, and pilot projects have been selected. It is necessary to launch them without delay and also think about expanding the geography of this programme.
Here is one more topic that is close and understandable to the people. The summer holiday season is drawing to a close. This year it began a bit later, somewhere in mid-July due to the pandemic. Despite this, millions of people again visited our traditional resort destinations – the Black Sea coast of Crimea and the Krasnodar Territory. This year, special attention was paid to domestic tourism by virtue of the well-known objective circumstances. By the way, there would have been no fortune, but misfortune helped. We managed to substantially promote domestic tourism.
I would like to raise this issue at the State Council meeting. As I have already said, cooperation of the regions, federal departments and leading infrastructure companies is required for this purpose.
Today, it takes about one day or more to get from Moscow to the Sochi or Yalta coasts by railway or car. What about our people who have to travel there from the north or the Urals. Such a journey will take them a lot more time. Or imagine getting from the Kerch Strait to Sochi by a serpentine road. Try to drive there with children in a car. It is possible and necessary to reduce the time required for such travel with full observance of safety requirements and maintenance of the roads. This must be done.
Let me recall that we are already implementing such plans as regards freight transport corridors and railway access to sea ports in the south. In parallel, it is necessary to do everything to make travel by car or railway to the south faster and more comfortable for passengers, including tourists. I have already spoken about this. I have said this more than once and would like to ask you to look at this from the practical point of view.
I would like to ask the Government to consider in detail the reconstruction of highways and railways leading to the Russian Black Sea coast, and adjust accordingly the plans of road construction and transport infrastructure development.
I would like to emphasise in conclusion that all areas of work that we will discuss today directly determine the living standards of our people and reflect the modern needs of the residents of megacities, small towns and villages. Needless to say, we will continuously monitor these topics.
Let us go on to the practical discussion.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, State Council
Publication date: September 28, 2020, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Congratulations to nuclear sector workers and veterans
Vladimir Putin congratulated nuclear sector workers and veterans on their professional holiday.
September 28, 2020
09:00
Vladimir Putin congratulated nuclear sector workers and veterans on their professional holiday.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I am happy to congratulate all workers and veterans of the nuclear industry of Russia on their professional holiday.
This year the nuclear industry celebrates its 75th anniversary and therefore I would like to extend my most heartfelt congratulations and wishes to veterans – those who laid and developed the solid foundation of the nuclear industry, both in the difficult post-war years and even during the war, as well as into the decades that have proceeded.
We are justifiably proud of our outstanding scientists, construction specialists, engineers and workers who were there at the very onset of the Soviet nuclear project. When so much was at stake for the destiny of our Fatherland, when literally every month, every week mattered, these people accomplished what then seemed impossible: they created an entirely new field from scratch and within the shortest term possible.
The country became a nuclear power and this held great significance – the once disrupted strategic balance had now been restored. Any aggression against our people that otherwise would have gone unpunished was now impossible – peace and the national security of our superpower nation was now guaranteed for decades to come.
I would like to stress that in those years it was our country that became a pioneer in using nuclear energy toward peaceful goals, which opened colossal horizons for the socioeconomic development of our country’s regions, industries, social spheres and for the exploration of the Arctic’s area.
I would like to express my special gratitude to those people who preserved the nuclear industry in the 1990s for their devotion to the profession. They continued to man their posts, sometimes without pay, driven by their sense of duty alone, which ensured the safety of our facilities. They simply could not have acted otherwise.
Today, Russia’s nuclear industry, the staff of our specialised enterprises, research institutes and design bureaus achieve major results that are important for the entire country – first and foremost in developing nuclear power generation, and do so in strict compliance with highest security requirements and standards.
Seamless, uninterrupted power supply is ensured in full, including this year, a year of many challenges, including the fight against such a dangerous outbreak.
The state corporation Rosatom plays an active role in resolving many other relevant and long-term objectives. It does so by creating digital and innovative products that are in demand and by carrying out in-depth research in metallurgy, medicine and ecology. Rosatom is at the centre of the development of technologies for handling hazardous waste and its disposal and plays a key role in the comprehensive exploration of the Northern Sea Route and the renewal of a nuclear ice-breaking fleet.
International projects in the construction and maintenance of nuclear power units abroad are extremely important too as they promote Russia’s reputation as a country of high technologies and intellect, as a serious and responsible partner. We are the world’s leader in modern, pure nuclear power engineering and possess the unique combination of reliability and safety. Currently Rosatom has – at varying stages of implementation – projects for the construction of 25 power units in nine countries, which is the highest result in the industry’s entire history.
And, of course, I would like to highlight the contribution of the industry’s specialists in consolidating Russia’s nuclear shield, in developing and testing new types of armaments that have no analogue. And in order to produce such results, one must often venture into the unknown, into uncharted, at first glance, territory. This quest requires not only the best qualifications but also personal courage. I know that such people, many of whom are very young, solve tasks of utmost importance in order to ensure our country’s defence.
History has shown that breakthrough achievements in such a complicated sphere as the nuclear industry are no coincidences. They are the result of our scientific and engineering schools and the systematic work of dozens of enterprises and thousands of people, our first-rate education and vocational training system.
The current dynamic development of the national nuclear complex, the fact that working in this industry has again became prestigious and attractive for young people, proves that Russia has the necessary potential. And we will gradually strengthen it in order to meet the geopolitical and technological challenges of the 21st century.
I would like to thank you for your outstanding and effective work. I wish you new successes, good health, of course, and all the best to you and your families.
Happy holiday!
Topics
Energy
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2020, 09:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov
Vladimir Putin met in Sochi with President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sooronbay Jeenbekov, who arrived in Russia on a working visit.
September 28, 2020
13:50
Sochi
The discussion focused on topical issues of Russian-Kyrgyz strategic partnership – specifically, cooperation in trade and the economy.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very glad to see you.
We had to postpone your visit due to the problems caused by the pandemic. However, our work continues, and life goes on as well. Just recently, in September, a fully-fledged meeting of the Intergovernmental Commission on Trade and Economic Cooperation took place in Bishkek.
I am very glad to have this opportunity to meet with you. First of all, I would like to say that last year, Russia and Kyrgyzstan enjoyed a significant increase in trade. Kyrgyzstan’s imports, which are, respectively, our exports, went up by over 25 percent. This is a very good result.
Clearly, there have been certain changes due to the current circumstances; however, we are confidently moving in the right direction. As per your request, we have increased our supplies of wheat. Overall, our agricultural exports are growing. We can confirm substantial progress in this area.
We will be able to discuss all the other issues at length today.
We both are actively involved in the activity of our regional international organisations. And I am very glad to have this opportunity to meet with you and talk about the situation in the region as well as about our bilateral cooperation.
You know that we consistently support your efforts, the Kyrgyz leadership’s efforts with respect to internal political stability in the country. We really hope that this work will continue thanks to your efforts. On our part, we will do everything to support you as the head of state and to support Kyrgyzstan and the people of Kyrgyzstan in achieving the major goals that you set for the country’s development.
Once again, welcome. I am delighted to see you.
President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov: Mr President,
I am pleased to meet with you. Although you are busy, you can always find time for Kyrgyzstan. This shows a lot of support for our country, both politically and economically. Russia has always offered us consistent support. This is your personal merit, because you are a sincere, great friend of Kyrgyzstan. The Kyrgyz nation knows, remembers and appreciates that. On behalf of the Kyrgyz people and myself, I would like to express my gratitude for this support.
Kyrgyzstan has always considered Russia to be a true friend, ally and strategic partner. We have seen this clearly during this difficult time. Thanks to you, we have managed to stabilise the epidemiological situation in Kyrgyzstan, and thanks to you, we have provided support for our citizens living in Russia.
Let me once again congratulate you on registering the first coronavirus vaccine. The entire world has been waiting for this day, and we were very happy to hear this news from you. We hope the Russian vaccine will be available to the people of Kyrgyzstan.
I greatly appreciate that the Eurasian Fund for Stabilisation and Development has provided the largest loan, $100 million, which is significant support for our economy. Both Gazprom and the Kyrgyz-Russian Foundation make their contribution to the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
Thanks to Russia, we are already completing the upgrade of our checkpoints. Thanks to Russia and thanks to you, we have already started marking and monitoring goods in Kyrgyzstan and launched the tax inspection information system.
You mentioned that the Intergovernmental Commission held its 22nd meeting yesterday. This was a very fruitful event, its participants did a really good job, and I had a meeting with Mr Overchuk [the Russian co-chair of the Intergovernmental Commission Alexei Overchuk].
Of course, the people of Kyrgyzstan have high expectations regarding our meeting. As you are aware, with the approach of a parliamentary election, all kinds of forces opposing stability and national development have been stepping up their activities. They are even trying to encroach on Kyrgyzstan’s sovereignty, and drive a wedge into our allied relationship and strategic partnership. Of course, we will not let them do this, and anyway they would never succeed, since Russia’s backing is essential for us. I would like to thank you for this assistance. We have always treasured our historical, time-tested relationship.
Thank you for your warm hospitality and for the opportunity to discuss topical matters with you.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, as you know, Russia never interferes in the domestic affairs of its neighbours or any other countries. Nevertheless, we always support efforts to stabilise the situation and promote inclusive dialogue with all political forces. We invariably support the existing government in its efforts to bring about calm, and will stick to this line in our relations with Kyrgyzstan, including by providing economic support.
At every meeting you raise the question of supporting Kyrgyzstan’s nationals working in Russia. On this topic, we have taken a number of specific decisions. Everything points to the fact that we will keep returning to this question and will go to great lengths to deliver on matters you will raise at today’s meeting.
I am really delighted to see you. Once again, welcome!
Over a working lunch we will have an opportunity to calmly discuss almost all matters you will deem important for today’s conversation.
I am aware that you are planning a working trip to European countries, and would like to wish you every success in this undertaking.
Sooronbay Jeenbekov: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Jeenbekov Sooronbay
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2020, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Moldova Igor Dodon
Vladimir Putin had a videoconference meeting with President of the Republic of Moldova Igor Dodon.
September 28, 2020
15:50
Sochi
3 of 6
President of Moldova Igor Dodon. Photo: Press Office of the President of Moldova
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Dodon,
President of Moldova Igor Dodon
: Good afternoon, Mr Putin. I am very glad to see you.
Vladimir Putin: I am also glad to see you, likewise.
Mr President, next year we will mark the 20th anniversary of the Treaty on Friendship and Cooperation. I must admit these years in Russia-Moldova relations were not easy. But owing to your efforts, we have been improving these relations recently, in accordance with the spirit and letter of the Treaty that I have just recalled. I hope that after the presidential elections that are due to take place literally in a month (by the way, I would like to wish you success at these elections), we will manage to continue the work you have started on restoring and developing our interstate ties.
We know that this year Moldova has faced economic problems, not to mention the coronavirus. I will say a few words about this. On top of all that, the country’s agriculture has to counter the consequences of the drought. At your request, we have allocated the required funds, up to a total of half a billion rubles, as humanitarian aid with a view to supplying the hardest hit companies with diesel fuel as you asked us. The first tranche for half of this amount is ready to go. We expect you to send us a list of companies that need this support in the first place.
With regard to the coronavirus, as you may be aware, we supplied Moldova, also at your request, with 15,000 test kits. We are prepared to continue to work together at the level of specialists, sanitary doctors, epidemiologists, and researchers who are successfully working in this area in Russia in order to support you and the citizens of Moldova who are facing this pandemic.
We have planned a series of measures. I hope we will be able to carry them out as quickly as possible. We also have something to discuss in this regard.
Once again, I am happy to have you here, and it is great that we can see each other, albeit at a distance. Nevertheless, this allows us to lose no time in resolving the problems that are of principal interest to both Moldova and Russia.
Igor Dodon: Mr President, thank you very much for the kind words about our partnership.
Indeed, we have managed, in conjunction with you, to almost restore the strategic partnership between our countries at all levels in recent years. At the presidential level, we re-launched this partnership in 2017, when we first met as presidents. We are having a very good dialogue at the parliament and government levels over these last twelve months. Our strategic dialogue enjoys excellent dynamics in almost all areas and levels of state power.
Unfortunately, this year was marred by the coronavirus pandemic and a drought. I want to thank you for the help that Russia has provided in our efforts to fight the coronavirus. Russia was one of the first countries to help us in March and April.
I would also like to thank you for the fact that Russia is ready to issue a loan, and I hope we will sign an agreement to that effect soon. I am referring to a loan of 200 million euros to support Moldova’s economy. I am aware that there was a round of talks last week, and there is progress.
Despite the challenging situation, we will hold an online Moldova-Russia forum on October 1. And the intergovernmental commission will meet to discuss a bilateral issue on Friday, October 2.
A good dialogue on the Transnistrian settlement is underway. Mr Kozak must have informed you about it. We maintain contact with the left bank. I think we will cope with this situation with the help of our friends.
As far as agriculture is concerned, we have been hit by an unprecedented drought; we have not seen a drought like this in Moldova since the middle of the 20th century. Unfortunately, coupled with the coronavirus, it has complicated the economic situation even more. We had a significant drop in the second quarter of the year, in the first six months. However, despite these problems, we are keeping the situation under control.
Thank you very much for your wishes of success during the election.
<…>
Geography
Moldova
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Dodon Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2020, 15:50
Text version