Events
Meeting with St Petersburg Governor Alexander Beglov
Vladimir Putin met with St Petersburg Governor Alexander Beglov aboard the new Russian diesel-electric icebreaker Viktor Chernomyrdin. They discussed issues of countering the coronavirus and prospects for developing the metro in the city.
November 3, 2020
18:40
St Petersburg
1 of 3
Meeting with St Petersburg Governor Alexander Beglov.
Alexander Beglov thanked the President for the tangible support in countering the coronavirus. On the President’s instructions, the Government of the Russian Federation allocated 21 billion rubles to the city for this purpose. This sum was used to pay benefits to doctors, and to purchase medications, equipment and personal protection gear. In addition, almost 31 billion rubles were allocated to St Petersburg, as well as other regions, for social support, notably, for families with children, teachers, pensioners and social workers.
The Governor reported that about 64,000 people have been infected with the coronavirus in St Petersburg during the pandemic. Now the city has surpassed the threshold of 900 infections per day. Today, there are 21 hospitals and 7,913 COVID beds. Approximately 80 percent of the available beds are occupied. The construction of four new convertible inpatient facilities was started in June. They will be put into service in December, increasing the bed space by another 1,200 beds.
The President and the Governor also discussed metro construction. Metrostroy, the city’s general contractor for underground railway projects, is on the verge of bankruptcy. The city holds 25 percent of the company and has little to do with managing its assets, most of which belong to private owners. A solution was found with assistance from VTB Bank. It will transfer 65 percent of its shares to a newly established joint-stock company free of charge, and the city’s metro projects will not be interrupted. Governor Beglov thanked the President for his assistance in resolving these problems.
See also
Russian Federation national flag raised on icebreaker Viktor Chernomyrdin
November 3, 2020
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Healthcare
Regions
Transport
Persons
Beglov Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 3, 2020, 18:40
Text versionEvents
Russian Federation national flag raised on icebreaker Viktor Chernomyrdin
The President of Russia attended the flag raising ceremony on the open sea diesel-electric icebreaker Viktor Chernomyrdin.
November 3, 2020
18:00
St Petersburg
5 of 13
Speech at the ceremonial raising of the national flag of the Russian Federation on the icebreaker Viktor Chernomyrdin.
The Viktor Chernomyrdin, of the Icebreaker8 ice class, is the world’s largest diesel-electric icebreaker and is capable of operating in open seas through ice up to two metres thick. It has two helipads and is equipped not only to lead vessels through ice but can also be used for research expeditions and can transport containers and hazardous cargo.
The President inspected the vessel’s bridge and controls and viewed information stands on the future development of the Baltic logistics systems.
* * *
Statement at the flag raising ceremony aboard the icebreaker Viktor Chernomyrdin
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, Mr Trukhanovich,
This is a difficult time for all of us, as we say every day. But pandemic or no pandemic, life must go on, and we are moving forward without postponing our plans, as we have noted on several occasions.
Today we are attending a very pleasant and important event, actually a landmark event. The national flag of the Russian Federation has just been raised on a new open sea diesel-electric icebreaker, the world’s largest and most powerful icebreaker of this class, which was named after our outstanding compatriot, Viktor Chernomyrdin.
Today we are commemorating this great person. Viktor Chernomyrdin passed away exactly 10 years ago. It can be said without exaggeration that he was a statesman and a politician on a history-making scale, a bright and strong man, a hard worker and a creative person. He never shied away from responsibility and did a good job, serving the nation in everything he did.
It should be said that is was largely thanks to his balanced and far-sighted approach and his sound stewardship that the human and technological potential of our industry, the fuel and energy sector and other industrial sectors were maintained in the extremely difficult period of the 1990s.
In general, he was a workaholic. I can personally testify to this, as I watched him work and learned a great deal from him. He was endlessly loyal to our country.
It is therefore symbolic that this modern and well-equipped icebreaker, which was named after him, was built by Russian shipbuilders at Russian shipyards. I would like to use this occasion to once again express our gratitude to all those who contributed to building it.
Thanks to you, the Russian icebreaker fleet has received a powerful vessel of a high ice class. These specifications allow us to use it for a variety of jobs but primarily to ensure navigation in the Gulf of Finland and on the Northern Sea Route.
Such high-tech sea vessels that can work under low temperatures and in pack ice are especially important for Russia, a great polar power, and for implementing our strategic plans in the development of our northern regions and promising transport and logistics routes.
Friends, we have a unique icebreaker fleet, and we lead in Arctic development and research, as all of you are aware. But we must consolidate this leadership all the time and every day, by building up our position, strengthening and renewing our fleet and implementing new technology in the construction of icebreakers and other ice-class vessels.
Work is already underway on several series of diesel and nuclear-powered icebreakers, which are unmatched in the world. The future belongs to them, and I am confident that our talented shipbuilders are ready for pioneering work, for finding and implementing daring technical solutions, and I know they will certainly attain all the objectives set before the country.
I would like to wish everyone great success and, of course, productive work to the crew of the icebreaker Viktor Chernomyrdin.
Thank you, and good luck.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Regions
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 3, 2020, 18:00
Text version