Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a regular meeting with Government members.
March 17, 2020
16:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 8
Meeting with Government members.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We have many important issues to discuss today. Let us start with our measures to counter the coronavirus infection that is now known all over the world. Then we will talk about the spring sowing campaign and discuss housing and utilities.
But before we start discussing these serious, nationally important issues, I would like to wish a happy birthday to Andrei Belousov. It is his birthday today. He enjoys alpine tourism, rock climbing.
I would like to give you a book – we all want to give you a book. It is entitled Rock Routes near the Great Sevastopol Trail. Happy birthday to you!
I have already mentioned the issues that we are going to discuss. Mr Mishustin asked me to give him the floor to start the discussion on the structure and plans of work to counter the spread of the coronavirus.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
I would like to address you, members of the Russian Government, our colleagues in the regions – we are now working with them very closely, practically on a daily basis. I would like to address all citizens of this country.
We are watching how the situation with the spread of the coronavirus infection is unfolding. Most countries have already seen some consequences of this disease both in healthcare and in the economy.
In some countries, like our friends, the People's Republic of China (PRC) or the Republic of Korea, the situation is changing for the better. This is perfectly obvious. We can only rejoice in this together with our friends.
But a difficult, sometimes even challenging situation is developing in other states, including European countries. The number of new cases is growing rapidly almost every day.
These countries are taking emergency measures, including quarantines, border closure, restrictions on large public events, cancellation of air flights and travel by other types of transport. Education institutions adapt their teaching practices to a special regime or close. Obviously, these measures are justified and contingent on the situation. Of course, we wish all our colleagues success in this effort, in countering this infection.
Naturally, this external threat could not bypass Russia, especially since the bigger part of this large country is located in the east, in the Far East and beyond the Urals, while a considerable part of the population lives in the European part. We have contact with states from different parts of the world.
Today, considering our intensive business, humanitarian and simply human contact with foreign countries, the situation in this sense is becoming more complicated. But, as you know, viruses have never observed state borders. Today, the situation is different because of the frequent travel in the world.
However, thanks to the prompt measures taken proactively both at the regional and federal levels, already in the first weeks of the epidemic, we managed to contain the massive – I would like to underscore – massive penetration and spread of the infection in Russia.
Now, despite the potentially high level of risk – I need to say this, and I will return to this again – despite the high level of risk, the situation is generally under control.
Medical institutions, border and other services are in high alert mode. Federal and regional authorities monitor the situation hourly, making the necessary decisions. As the Prime Minister just said, a coronavirus response coordination council has been set up under the Government of Russia with a corresponding working group at the State Council.
I ask you to continue to be highly mobilised, to act in a coordinated and coherent manner and, most importantly, to try to work ahead of the curve. It is extremely important to keep people informed; it is an extremely important thing – direct, comprehensive and reliable information. We just visited the information centre, just set up here in Moscow. I think other regions need to do the same, and the Moscow centre needs to build up its capacity.
Russians should have all the necessary information: what kind of threat we are facing, what measures are being taken by the state, and what each of them should do to protect themselves and their families.
It is fundamentally important to rule out the reasons behind the emergence of harmful and empty rumours or, worse, malicious speculation on this topic. But the only thing that can offset and counter this is reliable, timely, and complete information.
At the same time, we need to take into account all aspects and risks of the possible spread of the infection, I just said that. First of all, we need medical institutions to be ready to provide timely assistance both at home and in hospitals, as Ms Golikova just said. This is what is being done and will continue to be done in the near term.
We need to take preventive and quarantine measures. We must stock up on medications, equipment and technical devices. We must also think about stocking up on personal protective equipment and antiseptics. And of course, medical facilities must have enough capacity to meet the challenge.
As for test systems for prompt diagnostics of the coronavirus and a vaccine to prevent it, our leading laboratories are working hard on this. Russia has all the necessary competences in this area and solid science for achieving these objectives in the near future. Previous experience shows that our specialists are able to resolve such major tasks.
Proper attention is being paid to test systems. Now the main goal is to drastically increase their production. This task is being tackled by the VECTOR state research centre and the Institute of Epidemiology at Rospotrebnadzor, as well as specialists from the Healthcare Ministry and the Federal Medical-Biological Agency (FMBA) institutions.
We are also using international cooperation as a resource. The Russian Direct Investment Fund will finance joint developments with our Japanese partners with a view to launching the production of express tests already in April. Eventually, this will be the world’s first portable express test.
As for the vaccine, I repeat, this work is also underway. Rospotrebnadzor specialists are engaged in this. They have been joined by specialists from the FMBA’s St Petersburg Research Institute of Vaccines and Serums.
Today, I would like to express special gratitude to the physicians, nurses, staff of infectious and other hospitals, polyclinics, out-patient clinics and the Emergency Medical Service.
Their work in this area is in high demand. Of course, it is necessary to ensure their safety and provide all of them with protective equipment for working with risk groups, but this work is important and necessary.
These people are performing their professional duty with honour as has happened repeatedly in the history of domestic medicine. They are risking their health to help others.
I ask the Government, the Healthcare Ministry and the regions to develop additional support measures for doctors and medical staff. We have already said that this work, this support must be divided into two parts.
First, to increase the salary fund for Rospotrebnadzor employees who are working on identifying the infection.
Second, to increase the salary fund in the regions. I mean to increase the corresponding salaries of the primary healthcare workers, such as local therapists, general practitioners, pulmonologists, infectious disease doctors, anaesthesiologists-reanimatologists, and nurses. Let us not forget about the junior medical staff: people who are also in the risk zone: paramedics and obstetricians at rural paramedic centres. These are the people who work directly with those who need our help and support.
Of course, I am speaking about increasing payments to them for working in emergency conditions, for the intensity of their work. This mechanism must be transparent and fair, and I am asking the Government to make decisions on additional payments and develop the procedure as soon as possible.
I am also asking to ensure that the Executive Order I have just signed – Mr Mishustin knows that – is implemented. It allows online sales of non-prescription medicines. We discussed this yesterday, too.
However – and the Executive Order includes this, and I ask the Government to note this – it is necessary to submit the necessary proposals to amend the regulatory framework, the law increasing the responsibility for counterfeit medicines, so that nobody would think about taking advantage of the situation and selling products that cannot cure.
Online sales of medicines is a very important and sensitive issue, first of all for people and families in quarantine.
In this context, I ask the Government and our telecommunications companies to use all their resources in order to fulfil the instructions I gave in my Address to the Federal Assembly as soon as possible: to provide free access from personal computers to socially important Russian websites in order to buy medicines, study online, get public services and even watch Russian films and children’s shows among other things. It is essential for people who stay at home with their families.
Furthermore, the epidemic has already had a profound effect on the global economy. Mr Belousov has just spoken about the measures that are being taken or are planned by the Government of the Russian Federation. I ask you to develop smooth cooperation between the Government, the Bank of Russia and the regions of the Russian Federation. In the last few days we have been actively engaged in fine tuning new cooperation mechanisms. They should run like clockwork.
Now we need to take precise steps to maintain economic stability and sustainability of Russian companies and industries. This primarily applies to transport, logistics and secure supplies of food products and basic necessities.
Of course, it is important to monitor the performance of key, major companies that are the backbone of our economy and many of the regions in Russia. But – Mr Belousov just spoke about this – we know that millions of people work in small and medium-sized companies, at small plants and we must not allow this important sector to sustain damage due to this roller coaster ride and force majeure. Needless to say, I will do everything I can to support the measures you mapped out on helping the economic sector.
It is necessary to relieve entrepreneurs – I also agree with this – of excessive inspections as much as possible. They should receive help in resolving their tax and debt problems. Any penalties should be issued with consideration for the current situation. This was mentioned as well, and I consider it timely and the right approach.
The social sphere requires special attention. I am referring to universities, schools, kindergartens and nurseries, as well as institution that take care of people with disabilities and elderly people. I would like to emphasise that the health and security of people must be given absolute priority.
If it is necessary, or will eventually become necessary, to announce unscheduled vacations or temporarily close children’s institutions, children must not be left alone, so, in addition to organising distance tuition, it is necessary to be in constant contact with their parents.
I would like to ask the staff at these institutions to take all this into account so we can deal with what is, let’s be straight, a difficult situation calmly and with minimal loss. We must deal with this situation in a sustained and orderly manner. Everyone is interested in this, including company owners.
It is necessary to compile special, flexible or remote work schedules for parents with children of school or preschool age, wherever possible.
I will repeat: all our decisions must be justified, clear-cut and understandable to people. They must correspond to the potential risks and be carried out as and when necessary. We must be proactive, look at how the situation is developing, prepare the relevant measures and take them as and when necessary. In effect, it turned out that way.
Let me emphasise that these steps are mandatory for all levels of government and all organisations regardless of the form of ownership or departmental subordination. It is necessary to ensure the toughest possible control. I would also like our citizens to treat these steps with understanding.
Our solidarity, concentration, responsibility, discipline and willingness to support each other are simply irreplaceable. These qualities have allowed us to overcome many difficulties, like in a good and big family.
Obviously, we must get our act together at all levels. We must deal with these goals through concerted effort and display special care for elderly people, elderly parents and for children in order to protect them as much as possible.
Explanatory information is of vital importance, as I have already said. I hope the media and volunteer associations will help with this. People must be clear on how to act, where to ask for support, and what precautions to take to protect themselves, their families, relatives, neighbours and co-workers from the potential threat.
And let me repeat: the state and society – all of us must now act conscientiously and be well-organised and responsible. We must understand the situation and take care of each other. This is the bottom line under the circumstances.
<…>
Topics
Agriculture
Healthcare
Housing
Persons
Golikova Tatyana
Mishustin Mikhail
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 17, 2020, 16:40
Text versionChairperson of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova: Mr President,Events
Opposition, systemic and non-systemic (interview to TASS)
The 15th part of Vladimir Putin's interview to TASS News Agency has been published.
The 20 Questions with Vladimir Putin project is an interview with the President of Russia on the most topical subjects of social and political life in Russia and the world. Total recording time is 3.5 hours.
March 17, 2020
15:00
5 of 6
Vladimir Putin gave an interview to TASS Russian News Agency.
Andrei Vandenko: You actually gave the opposition a compliment by saying that we need the opposition, including the non-systemic one.
Vladimir Putin: It is not a compliment – this is what I think. I mean it sincerely.
Andrei Vandenko: By and large, objectively speaking, our opposition, well, what we call the opposition, is tame. It is hand-fed.
Vladimir Putin: No, that is not true. When…
Andrei Vandenko: Systemic. What we call systemic opposition.
Vladimir Putin: Listen, we have four parliamentary parties. Quite often they have their own view of things. True, United Russia holds the majority in the State Duma. Some may say: you know, it's … a little bit boring.
Andrei Vandenko: Window dressing.
Vladimir Putin: No. A little bit boring.
Andrei Vandenko: A decoration.
Vladimir Putin: No. A little bit boring.
Andrei Vandenko: Boring.
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Andrei Vandenko: Pretty true.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, yes.
Andrei Vandenko: Honestly?
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Andrei Vandenko: A little bit boring.
Vladimir Putin: I understand. Do you wish to jump for joy when they may be fighting there like they do in Ukraine or some other place?
Andrei Vandenko: ”Not the place for discussions,“ we remember.
Vladimir Putin: No. It is the place for discussions. But it is not a place for brawls or internal skirmishes. Or for showing off.
Andrei Vandenko: Well, you sound somewhat too radical – either a brawl or a swamp. What about taking some balanced position?
Vladimir Putin: This is what I am telling you. Listen to what Gennady Zyuganov said in his speech.
Andrei Vandenko: Oh!
Vladimir Putin: What makes you say oh? He has his own stance, and not only he, but other members of the Communist Party, too.
Andrei Vandenko: He and Zhirinovsky were philosophizing back when you were working in Dresden.
Vladimir Putin: It does not matter. It's not important.
Andrei Vandenko: In other words, a professional member of the opposition who lives at a state dacha [residence] belonging to the Administrative Directorate of the President, and drives a BMW with flashing blue lights is fine with you?
Vladimir Putin: Listen to me.
Andrei Vandenko: Is that so?
Vladimir Putin: If you wish to remain on the offensive yourself, you will not hear my answer.
Andrei Vandenko: I'm listening.
Vladimir Putin: And this non-systemic opposition – what is it? It’s legitimate parties. We have 50 parties altogether. We have liberalised the process of registering a political party. We have 50 of them.
Whether a member of an opposition party uses a car or not is a different question. What really matters is what attitude he takes towards the authorities and the decisions proposed by the Government or the ruling party on this or that issue.
You probably wanted to trip me up… You won't succeed. What I want to tell you is this… There is the United Russia party holding the majority.
Andrei Vandenko: Right.
Vladimir Putin: Right? There are other parties who quite often disagree – there are four of them in the parliament. They disagree with the ruling party's point of view. But you surely remember what there was in the 1990s, you are old enough after all. It was a mess of a parliament. Brawls were frequent and there was no chance to make a single decision. Still worse – do you know what was still worse? 
Andrei Vandenko: What?
Vladimir Putin: It was still worse that the decisions they made were impossible to implement. The economy was boxed into a corner. That's what it led to when there was no constructive discussion.
Now, my question is: Do you want to see them make a mess or make decisions of national importance?
In this connection, I cannot but recall one well-known Russian statesman: ”You want great upheavals, but I want great Russia.“ I believe, we all want great Russia, not stage shows at different levels of political power.
Andrei Vandenko: Absolutely. The opposition is also necessary to ‘put a hedgehog inside the authorities’ skull’, to make them move and work harder.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, yes, right. That's why I said that we need both systemic and non-systemic opposition. I'm saying so not as Russia's current President, but as an ordinary Russian citizen. We don’t need any mess. And we don’t need any shows. We need serious political activity.
Andrei Vandenko: You know, if the opposition is non-systemic it immediately, almost automatically becomes an enemy of the state.
Vladimir Putin: Nothing of the sort. Nothing of the sort. What makes you think so? Or do you wish to think so yourself? This has nothing to do with the reality. Why? We have 50 parties. Fifty. People must simply… You know what? You see, it is necessary…
Andrei Vandenko: People should have an opportunity to express their opinion out loud without any party… They should have this opportunity!
Vladimir Putin: The political consciousness of Russia's ordinary citizens has grown a lot over the past year. Yes. We may watch with pleasure someone's shocking escapades. Yes, we may like to see critics exposing somebody.
But! Even an ordinary citizen wants to see not only somebody criticize the authorities, but to hear and understand what is proposed by those who criticize; what solutions do they propose to the problems the country is faced with? When nothing but criticism is heard in reply, then the question arises: who is worth being voted for? Who is to be elected to the local or regional legislatures or the federal parliament?
You know, an ordinary citizen goes to work and back home every day. And still, a plain sausage will not be enough today for earning people's support.
Andrei Vandenko: I just consider you as a strong person.
Vladimir Putin: Hope so.
Andrei Vandenko: With a past in the martial arts.
Vladimir Putin: I still practise today.
Andrei Vandenko: You still practise, even more so. Not worth it to underplay – the opponent must be a worthy one. An opponent from among those who drive a BMW and reside at a state dacha, who is unlikely to argue with you in earnest.
Vladimir Putin: Listen to me. Do you think that in any other democratic country, including the United States, Congress or Senate members ride a goat to go to work…
Andrei Vandenko: It’s not just about the deputies…
Vladimir Putin: Or a lame mare? They use state cars there, too.
Andrei Vandenko: It’s not about the cars, really.
Vladimir Putin: No, this is exactly the matter. You have in fact hinted that they are sort of being bribed.
They use what the state gives them for performing their duties. They get it not from the current authorities. They get it from the state under the existing law. Be it a member of the opposition or not… Once the person takes a certain office, he gets everything the state has to provide him with in accordance with the law. For carrying out his duties, including those that person campaigns for and represented and that have propelled him to a certain body of power, to parliament, for example.
It's not the President who gives him a car. This is important. The President and his Administrative Directorate are obliged by law to provide this, regardless of whether he likes this or that deputy or party leader or not. 
Andrei Vandenko: It's not about members or their cars…
Vladimir Putin: That's the whole point. This means that the government is obliged to provide everybody with equal opportunities for performing their political functions.
Andrei Vandenko: My focus is rather on the political struggle, not specifically on some cars or dachas…
Vladimir Putin: That's part and parcel of the political struggle. The state has to create conditions for an adherent to any views to have an opportunity to work effectively. And not to permit a situation when the parliament speaker might say: ”Are you from the ruling party? Great. Here's your BMW to move around. And everybody else will drive a Zaporozhets [an economical supermini a working man could afford].“ No. Everybody must enjoy equal conditions.
See also
Sanctions as an economic booster (interview to TASS)
March 16, 2020
Topics
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 17, 2020, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Prosecutor General’s Office Board
March 17, 2020
13:20
Moscow
2 of 6
Expanded meeting of the Prosecutor General’s Office Board.
Vladimir Putin attended the expanded meeting of the Prosecutor General’s Office Board. The President reviewed the office’s performance in 2019 and its objectives for this year.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
We are holding this annual expanded meeting of the Prosecutor General’s Office Board to review your performance last year and, as usual, discuss the spheres that need to be given particular attention, including in light of the objectives set out in my Address to the Federal Assembly.
First of all, trivial as it may sound, I would like to say that the bodies of the Prosecutor General’s Office are among the most important and influential parts of the state machinery. The sphere of your operation is extremely broad, and you have great powers as well.
This high status should be fully reflected and sealed in the new wording of the Federal Law On the Prosecutor General’s Office of the Russian Federation. The office has been working on it since last year. I ask you to carry on and even to accelerate this work.
At the same time, you should work even more efficiently to protect law and order in society as well as the rights and freedoms of our citizens, exposing and cutting short any offences, the number of which, it should be said, remains considerable. This also concerns such a delicate sphere as the social rights of our citizens.
As you may know, the amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation, which have been put to a national vote, reinforce and specify our state’s social orientation. This means that your responsibility for compliance with citizens’ social rights will grow as well.
I ask you to immediately respond to any breaches of labour laws, including failure to pay wages and violation of labour protection regulations or rights of preretirement-age persons. We understand what this is related to and how important it is today.
Last year, prosecutors helped to disburse almost 27.5 billion rubles worth of wage arrears. This is an important result. Each proprietor or manager of a business or an organisation must understand that he or she cannot violate the law or solve their own or the company’s problems at the expense of employees; sanctions for these misdeeds will follow inexorably.
Matters related to state support for families with many children or on lower incomes, people with health problems, and old-age pensioners should remain on the special watch list. I mean access to free, hi-tech medical assistance, medicine provision, benefits, and other things of extreme importance for the people.
I have mentioned the upcoming national vote on amendments to the Constitution. The rights of Russian citizens to a free and democratic expression of their will must be secured in full. Your task is to establish close surveillance over the legitimacy of all relevant procedures.
Protecting the rights of minors is among the overriding priorities of the state, including the prosecutor’s offices. Children and teens, especially those left without the care of their families or relatives, as we all know well, are vulnerable and in the zone of risk.
Your task, along with other law enforcement agencies – and their heads are also in this room today, – social services, and public associations, is to ensure their reliable protection from various kinds of unlawful encroachments. In this context, it is necessary to supervise most thoroughly the investigation of crimes committed against children.
I also have to note today that last year the total number of crimes went up nationwide for the first time since 2016. The number of unsolved crimes has also increased. We have discussed this many times, but, unfortunately, the fact remains that every second crime remains unsolved.
You and your colleagues from other law enforcement agencies have a lot to think about here. I assume that statistics have probably improved; all of us realise this. Well, this is good, but I have already discussed this matter at a meeting of the Interior Ministry Board. Even if we look at statistics and make some adjustments, the number of unsolved crimes is higher than the year before. We need an in-depth analysis of problems and specific well-thought-out measures aiming to resolve them.
In the past few years, we have been posting highly negative trends regarding IT crimes. This includes encroachments on the private life of citizens, their property and money in bank accounts.
I ask the Prosecutor General’s Office, the Interior Ministry and other concerned agencies to assess the efficiency of work in this area and see how the available procedural opportunities are being used.
In general, I ask you to draft a system, a complex of measures for reducing the number of such crimes. It goes without saying that IT systems are developing rapidly, and they will continue to develop. They are entering all spheres of economic and private life.
Of course, we should not create any barriers for progress here. This is absolutely obvious, but the interests of society and the state must be reliably protected.
Fighting corruption is a highly relevant and extremely important part of your work, especially ensuring the security of the federal funds allocated for national projects, state and municipal programmes, and state defence order.
Corruption is certainly a problem that needs to be addressed constantly and comprehensively, but today – you understand this very well – what I just said is even more important, because we are investing enormous resources towards resolving major national problems and achieving the national development goals. It is essential to ensure the safety and efficient use of these resources.
I ask the Prosecutor General’s Office to step up its efforts in this area, and also to work more closely with the Federal Bailiff Service, the Interior Ministry, the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring (Rosfinmonitoring), and the tax authorities to retrieve illegally acquired property, or more bluntly – the assets and money stolen from the nation, from our people, from society.
I especially highlight your role in ensuring the competitiveness of our national jurisdiction. I am referring to the business climate, the environment for doing business, for small and medium-sized companies, and the economy as a whole.
In particular, a lot of work needs to be done following the adoption of federal laws forming a new system of control and supervision. You know that the deadline is coming soon, and that it is a very responsible job.
It is necessary to ensure its proper enforcement and harmonisation of the regional and municipal legal framework with the new federal legislation.
I recently spoke in great detail about countering extremism and terrorism at the board meetings of the FSB and the Interior Ministry.
In 2019, the prosecution authorities exposed over 213,000 violations of laws in this area. Decisions were made to declare the activity of four foreign non-governmental organisations undesirable. Based on the prosecution authorities’ evidence, the court recognised three organisations as extremist, and their activity was prohibited.
We need to continue to suppress any actions aimed at destabilising society, violating our traditional spiritual and moral values, and provoking ethnic and religious hatred. It is also necessary to work consistently and carefully monitor all aspects of protection of socially significant facilities and crowded places against terrorism.
Furthermore, the Prosecutor General's Office has recently adopted a course towards toughening the procurator’s supervision over compliance with the law and the rights of convicts in detention facilities. However, practice shows that there are still many violations of these rights. Plenty.
I ask you, in cooperation with the Federal Penitentiary Service, to take comprehensive measures to ensure security of the convicts, prevent infringement of law in correctional system facilities and to more actively cooperate with the Council for Civil Society, human rights commissioners in the Russian regions and representatives of the civil society.
The work of specialised prosecutor’s offices requires a more systematic approach.
The Transport Prosecutor's Office should toughen overseeing the implementation of the programmes on developing infrastructure and ensuring security of traffic on the roads and other transport.
Likewise, the Environmental Prosecutor's Office should step up its efforts to reveal crimes to do with nature, illegal forest devastation and extraction of bio resources. This is a very important area, extremely important.
Regrettably, for the time being, all of us – I am referring to the Prosecutor’s Office and other law enforcement agencies – have failed to reach the desired effect.
The Main Military Prosecutor's Office should be tough in revealing crimes in construction, reconstruction and overhaul of defence and other special facilities and timely react to the violations of the rights of service personnel and members of their families.
And, of course, all prosecutors should constantly be upgrading their professional skills. This largely applies to competent defence of the rights and interests of people, and qualified support for the prosecution on behalf of the state in courts, especially courts with the participation of a jury. The number of jury members has substantially increased over a period of the past few years.
I would like to note the systematic work of the prosecution bodies on introducing digital technology. I consider this area very important.
It is necessary to continue expanding this work and finish in the near future the formation of the agency’s modern information infrastructure, thereby enhancing the efficiency of oversight measures and the activities of the prosecution authorities as a whole.
It is very important to develop convenient, accessible feedback instruments, including prompt response to the complaints of people, specific questions and appeals related to the violation of their labour and social rights and entrepreneurial freedoms.
Colleagues, in conclusion, I would like to thank the entire staff of the prosecution corps for their conscientious attitude to work and loyalty to the best traditions of serving law, the society and the state.
Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to thank once again Yury Chaika for his effective work as Russia’s Prosecutor General for so many years, and wish every success to Igor Krasnov and all the employees of the prosecution authorities.
Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Fight against crime
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 17, 2020, 13:20
Text version