Events
Meeting on economic support measures
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on measures to support the Russian economy amid the spreading coronavirus.
March 24, 2020
16:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Meeting on economic support measures.
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin Mishustin MikhailPrime Minister of the Russian Federation , Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino Vaino AntonChief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office , First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov Belousov AndreiFirst Deputy Prime Minister , First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko Kiriyenko SergeiFirst Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office , Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova Golikova TatyanaDeputy Prime Minister , presidential aides Dmitry Kalimulin Kalimulin DmitryAide to the President – Head of the Presidential Speechwriting Office and Maxim Oreshkin Oreshkin MaximAide to the President , Minister of Labour and Social Protection Anton Kotyakov, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov Reshetnikov MaximMinister of Economic Development , Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov Siluanov AntonFinance Minister and Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina Nabiullina ElviraGovernor of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of Russia) .
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
This morning, I discussed with some of you the epidemiological situation in the country, specifically in Moscow and its environs. We spoke about additional measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus.
Meanwhile, I asked you here today to discuss measures to support the economy. You are aware that, unfortunately, this pandemic is having a negative affect on the global economy, including the leading world economies. One way or another it is affecting our country, too. I am aware that the Government is working on this on a daily basis. Mr Mishustin reports to me on a daily basis.
I propose discussing the measures that you have already prepared and any additional measures that you think might be appropriate in the current situation.
<…>
See also
Meeting on measures to fight coronavirus spread in Russia
March 24, 2020
Visit to Kommunarka hospital
March 24, 2020
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 24, 2020, 16:45
Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/63058
Text version