Events
Meeting with permanent members of Security Council
The President held a meeting on current matters, via videoconference, with permanent members of the Security Council.
September 11, 2020
14:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
At a meeting with permanent members of the Security Council (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
See also
News of the Security Council
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Let us get down to work.
First of all, I would like to point out that the current stage in Russia’s development consists of many component parts. However, it is perfectly clear that it also includes the implementation of large national development projects, which stipulate the creation of a great number of high-tech sites that involve the intensive use of existing industrial facilities in energy, transport, housing and utilities as well as many other spheres.
This undoubtedly poses new risks of technological accidents and emergencies. It is our task – the task of the state – to protect the people, our citizens, and the territory of Russia from their effects.
All of us are well aware that it is failure to comply with technical and industrial safety rules that results in adverse technological incidents, accidents and emergencies.
Today we will analyse the legal framework for this work at all levels – federal, regional and municipal. Based on this analysis, we will formulate our conclusions and propose new rules for operating in this sphere that should minimise the risk of technological accidents.
Let us listen to what Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev
has to say, and after that, I would like all those present to make their comments. As a result of our meeting today, we should adopt a decision that will be used as the basis for our further work in this vital sphere.
Go ahead, please.
<…>
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: September 11, 2020, 14:10
Text version