Events
Meeting with Head of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography (Rosreestr) Oleg Skufinsky
The President held a working meeting with Head of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography (Rosreestr) Oleg Skufinsky.
September 21, 2020
14:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
Meeting with Head of the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography (Rosreestr) Oleg Skufinsky.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Skufinsky.
Your service is a critical part of the Government’s economic block, but it bears a relation to the social sphere as well. I would like to start with discussing this issue as it is both economic and social in nature. I am talking about the garage amnesty. After that, we will discuss other matters.
Head of Rosreestr Oleg Skufinsky
: Mr President,
Over 3.5 million plots of land and garages have remained without registration since the Soviet times. Often, because of this the owners can neither sell them nor pass them on to their heirs. This also hinders the development of the municipalities since property rights have not been formalised.
We propose using a fast-track procedure, with the assistance of the local authorities, to enable the owners to officially register the titles to land and garages. We have drafted a corresponding law, which we submitted to the Government, and we expect to adopt this draft law by the end of the year in order to finally solve this problem.
Vladimir Putin: By the end of the year?
Oleg Skufinsky: We expect to have this done by the end of this year.
Vladimir Putin: What difficulties do you see here?
Oleg Skufinsky: We do not see any. The Prime Minister is supportive of this, and everything is on schedule.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Let's move on to other issues then.
Oleg Skufinsky: I would like to report that, in accordance with your executive order, the service has been directly reporting to the Government since January. This allowed us to pass decisions more quickly in the interests of people.
Today, the service provides about 130 million services per year, which is approximately four per second. The main ones include title registration, cadastral registration and provision of information.
I would like to note that the share of e-services is an important indicator of our activities. Their share was approximately 20 percent earlier in the year, and it has grown by 50 percent as of today. This is no doubt due in part to the lockdown measures, when many integrated government service centres switched to the “by appointment” mode, and our website became the only way that people could register a title. Our services worked well and provided guarantees for individual rights.
Vladimir Putin: Did everything go smoothly without failure?
Oleg Skufinsky: Yes, Mr President, during this period of time. We conducted an engineering fine-tuning of the system, and it worked absolutely without failures.
Vladimir Putin: What do you mean by engineering fine-tuning?
Oleg Skufinsky: What I am saying is that before that, quite a lot of users were loading the system with numerous requests. We have evened out this load for better performance.
Vladimir Putin: Who did this work?
Oleg Skufinsky: This work was carried out by Rosreestr and our subordinate organisation, the Cadastral Chamber. We worked on it as a team.
Vladimir Putin: Did you take any partners from the market to do the technical work?
Oleg Skufinsky: We have several companies that help us in our work, Mr President. So, we teamed up with them.
Vladimir Putin: That is, they were up to the task.
Oleg Skufinsky: Absolutely, Mr President. We worked as a team, but the Cadastral Chamber is our key competence centre. I think we did quite well as a team during this challenging period.
This is not to say that the system is perfect. It still needs some fine tuning.
Also, during this period, we kept working on transferring information from the old, so-called legacy information systems to the new unified and centralised Federal State Information Service of the Unified State Real Estate Register. We will finish this work by the end of the year, and, following the transition to this system, the services in general will be working more stably. Occasionally, there are certain glitches – I would not call them serious malfunctions – which still require our attention.
I would like to report on our current work under the national projects. Housing and Urban Environment is a critical project. We are paying special attention to mortgages within this project, including the Far Eastern mortgages, 6.5 percent APR mortgages and rural mortgages …
Vladimir Putin: What is your part in this work?
Oleg Skufinsky: We provide title registration, Mr President.
The share of electronic mortgage registrations is a very important indicator. This indicator is even included in the national project. Electronic registration was at 9 percent earlier in the year, and today it is up to 40 percent. That is, we have already doubled the national project indicator set for 2021.
Today, we are working closely with lending institutions and the Central Bank of Russia. We plan to bring this share to 80 percent by late 2021, that is, to practically make online mortgage registration available throughout the country.
I want to point out that mortgage transactions are normally registered within five days. Today, we are registering these transactions in two to three days. Most importantly, we do not leave people hanging and provide full advisory support, because mortgage lending is on the rise in the wake of the decisions on easy-term programmes. Two-percent mortgages enjoy wide popularity, especially in the Russian Far East. So, we are focusing on this.
I would also like to note that we have done a lot when it comes to the Prime Minister’s instruction. In a period of just two months we managed to collected information about virtually all plots of land that may be part of housing construction projects.
Vladimir Putin: I was just about to ask you a specific question about this.
Oleg Skufinsky: We have located 5,560 plots of land on the territory of over 107,000 hectares. Our national project provides for 50,000 hectares. In other words, we have created a double reserve on involving land into housing construction. We sent all the information on this to Minstroy and DOM.RF to let them make use of it as soon as possible.
We will continue this work and not stop it. On the contrary we will build it up. We believe that on this basis we will be able to create an integrated land resource in line with your instructions. Next year, we are planning to implement a pilot project in four regions of the Russian Federation that envisages the formation of an integrated resource on land and real estate because right now this information is kept in isolated resources.
The goal of this experiment is to integrate data bases of different government bodies that influence the use of land to this or that extent, and contain information about it, and develop technology on creating an integrated data base. We want to create a service on its basis. We have called it “Land, a Simple Way.” It allows any person or an interested investor to receive land very quickly and without any obstacles, practically online. Incidentally, this mechanism functions in the Far Eastern Hectare programme. Our service is the operator of this system. In effect, we would like to use this experience to spread it following this experiment.
Vladimir Putin: So, you are actually taking a first step in resolving a national goal linked with the housing problem.
Oleg Skufinsky: Exactly, because our resources make us responsible for the country’s integrated geo-informational sub-base, the so-called IEMF [Integrated Electronic Cartographic Frame]. We are in charge of registering rights, as well as land and buildings as well as their economic characteristics, such as cadaster and market values.
In other words, we possess a basic information resource that can be used for creating different services. But it is very important to have complete and precise information in this registry. It will determine the quality of these services and their performance. We are steadily working to this end.
Vladimir Putin: Well done.
<…>
Topics
Land relations
Social services
Persons
Skufinsky Oleg
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2020, 14:10
Text version