    Events Concert in memory of Anatoly Sobchak   Vladimir Putin attended
a concert in memory of Anatoly Sobchak at the Grand Hall of the Shostakovich St
Petersburg Academic Philharmonic.    February 19, 2020  20:30  St Petersburg                                                    1 of 3 At the concert in memory of Anatoly Sobchak.        President of Russia
Vladimir Putin:
Dear friends,Today we are paying tribute to Anatoly Sobchak, my mentor and friend. I am proud to say this. He was a very dynamic person. As we all know, he was St
Petersburg Governor, this is an important post, but he was not the first,
second or third person of the state. However, he surely was a politician of national scale. He lived
and developed as a politician (and he covered a short but exceptional and momentous path of development in politics) during a very difficult and critical
period in our recent history. And the thing is that a person like Sobchak related
to the spirit of that era. He was the kind of person our country needed, and he
was there.Of course, I am sure that there are no indifferent people in this hall; you saw his public
speeches, and you know what a brilliant speaker he was. And I could see all
this backstage from the inside. I will share my observations.You know,
in 1996, Anatoly Sobchak travelled as a confidant of Boris Yeltsin around the country, and to a very difficult region at that time, and proposed that I accompany
him. I watched it happen in real life.Those were
very difficult times. We lacked everything. The economy had “cracked,” and the social sphere fell apart, to put it bluntly. People lived in very difficult
conditions. You know, I remember how we would enter a hall (in 1996) met by hooting and whistling.What was different
about Anatoly Sobchak? Not only was he a very scholarly man, a well-trained
person, but do you know what his peculiarity was? He was a very decent and honest
man. And that was his essence. You will now understand why I combine all of the above. We would enter a hall to hooting and whistling, but he would leave to applause.We were on stage. I was receiving notes
and, to be honest (this was a great lesson for me), at first I tried to put
aside rude and abusive notes. When he saw that I was weeding out the rude
comments he said to me, “Let me have them.” He took them and started answering
the most difficult questions, but he spoke so sincerely, honestly and with
feeling that people believed him. People believed him and this is the main thing
that a politician must have: honesty, frankness and sincerity. He had all of these qualities.Yes, of course we remember the year he
lost the election in St Petersburg. This was no accident, either. He also had
his drawbacks, but maybe some of them were in way virtues at the same time. He was too straightforward.
He never fawned over anyone and was not a yes-man. He almost always said what he thought even when a seasoned
politician would at least keep quiet. He was never silent and always was honest
and straight talking. But these were hard times.All his friends, the people that
worked with him got a lot from him. This includes me, too. He did much for the city. What matters is not just that he returned the original name to the city. No, this is not the whole point. He returned a sense
of dignity to St Petersburg as the true northern capital and gave it a new
lease on life; more than anything, he gave the city its spirit back. He did a lot for the city and for this country and we – at any rate those who knew and loved him, and were his friends – will never forget this. Thank you very much for your attention.        Geography Saint Petersburg                        Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    February 19, 2020, 20:30  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/62833    Text version        NaN /  