Events
Meeting of Council for Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport, via videoconference.
October 6, 2020
13:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 5
Meeting of the Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport (via videoconference).
The meeting focused on the implementation of strategic and policy documents related to physical culture and sport and a draft Strategy on Developing Physical Culture and Sport in the Russian Federation until 2030.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we will discuss the results of implementing the Strategy on Developing Physical Culture and Sport until 2020. This Strategy is about to expire. We will discuss the main provisions of a new policy document that will cover the next ten years.
Our colleagues will speak about the results in detail. However, I would like to note that overall, the key goal of the expiring strategy, which, as I said, expires in 2020, has been achieved. What is the main outcome? The main outcome is that the number of people, representing different generations, who engage in sports on a regular basis, has grown 2.5 times since 2009, to almost 60 million people. This number is even slightly higher than the target indicator of 40 percent of the population that was set in the strategy. Currently, it is about 43 percent. In 2009, it was only 15 percent. As we can see, the progress is significant and remarkable.
There is still something to strive for, as they say, and it is important to get practical results. There is a direct connection between the higher number of people doing sports and the higher quality and, most importantly, longer expectancy of life. This is common knowledge, not only for experts. It is obvious. Objective data confirm this statement. The average life expectancy in Russia increased by more than 4.5 years between 2009 and 2019. This is a good result. We must maintain this positive dynamic, if we want the share of people leading an active and healthy lifestyle to reach 55 percent by 2024 and 70 percent by 2030. Many countries show similar results. So when I say that there is still something to strive for, this is exactly what we need to strive for.
It is essential that quality matches quantity. Regular physical exercise should not only be a good trend (although this is also important) but a strong habit, a natural lifestyle for the majority of people in our society.
I would also like to note that this year’s difficult events have seriously affected the sphere of sport. As you know, thousands of sporting events, including the Olympics, were cancelled in Russia and all over the world due to the pandemic.
The impact of the restrictions on fitness centres and clubs was felt by the people, by professional athletes, sports organisations and businesses working in this sphere.
The new strategy must envisage measures that will help people remain physically active, support stadiums and sports clubs and, of course, prevent an interruption in the training of Russian national teams in case of such force-majeure.
The new strategy should also focus on creating conditions for intensive development of mass sports – I will elaborate later – the necessary infrastructure in schools, universities, offices and at home.
Over the past years, a lot of large, enormous sports complexes and arenas with thousands of seats have been built and upgraded; this is a good outcome of the Olympics, the FIFA World Cup, and student universiades among many other sporting events and international forums held in Russia. But today we have to focus on the widespread expansion and renovation of a network of small, well-equipped local sportsgrounds and centres. And we must make working out there mostly free of charge.
This is especially important for rural areas, as I have said many times, where such infrastructure is not developed enough. A lot of work has to be done here as part of the Rural Sports subprogramme to be launched in 2021.
Moreover, people have to know where and how sports are organised and find ways to engage in sport even when they travel to other regions, on holiday or on business. In order to do this, advanced technologies and digital information resources must be used. People should be informed about the location of sports centres and facilities and also about programmes designed for individual athletes and groups as well as for people with various levels of health and training.
Let me also remind you that at a Council meeting we decided to establish centres for the early physical development of children. Today I would like to see what has been done in this sphere, which I believe to be most important. Let us also talk today about the way in which our agreements on correcting the activities of facilities for children’s and teenagers’ sports are being implemented. Their main goal, regardless of which agency they are related to, is to create conditions for comprehensive personal development. In this work, we have to use common principles and approaches that must closely combine the growth of athletic skills with moral and intellectual education.
By the way, this is what happens in some semiprofessional schools. I have been to several football organisations for children, which work really well. This means there are good examples that have to be followed. There are additional education progammes and training standards in all sports.
Mentors also have to have equal opportunities and responsibilities. I would like to note that a coach in a sport school is like a P.E. teacher in school. And all sport organisations are in fact educational. Look what we have. For example, in Russia, it is forbidden for people with a criminal record to work with children, but only in the sphere of education. As we have said, it is necessary to harmonise all these relations, but interagency discussions have torpedoed this process. I would like to ask the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education as well as the Ministry of Education to cross the t’s and solve these issues within a month as well as prepare a report on the implementation of interagency programmes for the development of child, youth and student sports for our discussion at the next Council meeting.
Colleagues, I would like to stress once again that the new strategy for the development of fitness and sport until 2030 must, of course, be comprehensive and become an important tool for the achievement of the national development goals in general. As I said at the beginning, fitness and sport directly influence the quality of people’s lives, their health, emotions, lifespan and working ability, which means they can and must play an important role in addressing the priority tasks facing Russia and its society in general.
I know that council members have developed specific proposals on the further development of sport. I can see them here in the documents. I would like to ask the government to take them into consideration when drafting the strategy. Of course, we will talk further about this today. The strategy must be adopted before the end of the year.
Let us get down to work.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: You said the influence of sports is enormous, even huge. Of course, the achievements of our outstanding athletes – we have said this many times and will continue to say it – influence millions and serve as an example for millions and encourage people to go to fitness centres, sport clubs and sport school. This is extremely important.
It is true that from time to time we are pushed away from the heights our athletes deserve, through non-sport related means. But what can we do? You have been in sport organisation for a long time, since the preparations for the Olympics, and you know what the coaches say: we are playing an away game, so in order to win rather than complain we must be stronger than our rivals. And, of course, we should do everything we can legally to protect the interests of our athletes. I believe recently we are regaining this skill. I hope that our agencies will focus on this area, too.
In fact, it is not important how the athletes are counted abroad. For us something else is important, namely maintaining the increasing life expectancy rates; this is the main indicator of the Government’s efforts in the social sphere, in labour relations, in healthcare and for fitness and sport, sport for all people above all.
As I said, in 2009 the average lifespan – clearly this is an average number so please do not be too picky about it –was 68.78 years, against 73.34 years in 2019. This is a result, a positive result. It is necessary to use all the tools the Government has – in this case the development of fitness and sport – effectively in order to achieve the final goal of improving the health and quality of life of our people and increase life expectancy rates. In fact, the strategy we are discussing today, the sport and fitness development strategy until 2030 is dedicated to this. We need to adjust our strategy following our discussion today and start implementing it next year.
I hope that all our agencies and ministries will work effectively in this area, as I mentioned, with support from public organisations, leading coaches, the media and of course the Presidential Council for the Development of Fitness and Sport.
I would like to thank all the council members for your effective cooperation.
All the best.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: October 6, 2020, 13:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with State Duma party faction leaders
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with the heads of the four parliamentary groups represented in the lower house of parliament.
October 6, 2020
14:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 4
Meeting with State Duma party faction leaders (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting via videoconference were Vladimir Zhirinovsky
(LDPR), Gennady Zyuganov
(KPRF), Sergei Neverov
(United Russia) and Sergei Mironov
(A Just Russia), as well as State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, and First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
We regularly meet in various formats. Today’s meeting was arranged at the State Duma Speaker’s proposal to discuss current political matters and, of course, the legislative priorities that are directly linked with the objectives the country faces.
Colleagues, you represent Russia’s four major leading parties that are active at the federal, regional and municipal levels. They enjoy popular respect and the support of millions of our citizens. Working at various levels of government, your representatives take responsibility for delivering on specific tasks. It is essential that you speak in one voice when it comes to the most important matters of principled importance, standing up for the sovereignty and security of our country, historical truth, and the vital interests of the people. You are doing a great deal to strengthen civil society and its key institutions.
I would like to emphasise once again that parliamentary parties play a fundamental, stabilising role within the political system. This means that they are essential enablers of the country’s sustainable development and ensure that we continue to move forward, guided by our national interests, while safeguarding us from various disruptions.
Of course, the approaches you adhere to may vary. But regardless of the differences, it is important to rally society around the national development goals and the basic, fundamental values that matter to every Russian citizen. This unity is vital for the country. Only united we stand.
The potential of your parties was reaffirmed on the single election day on September 13. Over 9,000 election campaigns were held throughout the country at different levels. Candidates from more than 20 parties and associations have been elected, but the so-called top four parties reported the best results, of course. I would like to congratulate you and your colleagues once against on this high public assessment of your activities. I am sure you are aware that this trust also entails huge responsibility. And you must justify this trust with constructive work.
Of course, much is expected from United Russia, which has won the majority of votes. However, I would like to mention the great and positive role of the opposition. What I mean is not only justified criticism by the opposition, which is keeping the authorities on their toes, if I can say so, but also a striving to formulate constructive and practical proposals on nearly all issues on the national agenda. We will definitely take into account all reasonable and constructive ideas. I am asking the Government to bear this in mind.
I would like to give special thanks to all of you, all the State Duma factions and your colleagues in the regions for your hard and effective work, including in the challenging conditions of the coronavirus epidemic.
It is important that the law-making process has not been disrupted. Quite to the contrary, Parliament quickly and proactively adopted dozens of laws the people needed.
The threat is not over, and the virus is still with us, but we are prepared for any contingency. We will take accurate and coordinated decisions to support our people, the social sphere and healthcare. I am sure that you will understand and support such decisions in all Duma factions.
I am aware of the problems with the coronavirus at the State Duma. Regrettably, some of you have contracted the disease. But the State Duma continues working. It has started hearings on the federal budget for 2021 and the subsequent two years.
I would like to highlight the following. In my Address to the Federal Assembly, I proposed to significantly expand the demographic programme, to strengthen the mechanisms of social protection, especially for families with children. Specific tasks were set for the development of school and university education, and the healthcare system, including primary care.
In addition, last spring and summer, with your involvement, colleagues, we adopted a number of new decisions to provide better social support, to support employment, the key industries, and small and medium-sized businesses. Some of these policies are not temporary – those are not even anti-crisis measures, but are forward-looking in nature and should be fully reflected in the new three-year state budget.
I would like you, together with the Government, the Federation Council, and the expert community, to work out all the key targets to be included in the budget. The priorities here are financing our social obligations to citizens and, of course, objectives that would move our country forward, the achievement of the strategic national development goals outlined for the next decade, until 2030.
The Government is already updating the national projects, adjusting the target figures. I want you to actively participate in this work and to take it into account both in the budgeting process and when considering other legislative initiatives to improve the quality of life in Russia and stimulate entrepreneurial activity, to improve the investment climate, accelerate the introduction of innovations and forward-looking digital services and platforms into industrial production and public administration.
In general, I ask you to provide high-quality and timely legislative support for the national projects. Please bear in mind that systemwide regulation is important, as well as a clear plan and a uniform logic of all steps related to the comprehensive development of the country's legislative framework. I am counting on the parliamentarians’ experience and competence. I know that you have varying approaches to different problems. But your ability to maintain dialogue with the expert community, the regions, business associations, and trade unions is in great demand. And I will stress again, I look forward to a cooperative and constructive effort of all parliamentary parties.
Thus, one of the major tasks is to implement the new provisions of the Constitution of the Russian Federation. The amendments supported by our citizens are serious and meaningful. They concern issues of politics and the economy, science and education, patriotic upbringing, and the moral and ethical spheres and are aimed at further enhancing the role of civil society in the nation’s life and building an effective system of balance in the government.
Yes, of course, the norms of the Constitution imply direct action but each of them must be appropriately and clearly reflected in the legislative provisions on implementing Constitutional provisions and new laws. A whole package of relevant draft laws has already been submitted to the State Duma.
But this is only the first step. Large-scale and very sensitive law-making work lies ahead. I would call this work lapidary. It must be carried out in a way to ensure direct contact and to upgrade feedback with the citizens, your voters. They have already become full-fledged co-authors of the amendments to the Fundamental Law. It is necessary to continue being guided by their opinions and their expectations of what exactly this or that norm of the Constitution is supposed to change in their daily lives.
I know well that different parties and deputies had their own positions, sometimes critical, on some Constitutional amendments during their discussion. This is perfectly normal and right. I understand this. This is natural for any democratic state.
The broad range of opinions we saw during the discussion of Constitutional amendments, and ideological diversity are required today, too. Therefore, I would like to ask you, colleagues, including those from parliamentary opposition parties, to take a very active part in implementing new Constitutional amendments and to be constantly in touch with the members of the working group who drafted their text.
The deeper and more comprehensive the expert drafting of laws in accordance with the new Constitutional amendments is, the better and more lasting our common result will be. Our national legislation will be modern and effective. This is primarily in the interests of our citizens, for whose benefit we work.
Let us start our discussion. Let us discus all urgent issues and topics thoroughly and openly, as we have always done.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2020, 14:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Viktor Medvedchuk
Earlier, in Novo-Ogaryovo, the President met with Head of the Political Council of the Ukrainian party Opposition Platform – For Life Viktor Medvedchuk.
October 6, 2020
17:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Head of the Political Council of the Ukrainian party Opposition Platform – For Life Viktor Medvedchuk.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedchuk, I am pleased to have you here.
I have known for a long time now that despite the many challenges you maintain a straightforward position on restoring Ukrainian-Russian relations at all levels, including state, non-governmental, and in the economy.
We are pleased to know that there are political forces in Ukraine that openly and honestly hold this position. For our part, we are ready to contribute to restoring Russian-Ukrainian relations in every way. We hope that you will have more supporters in this regard over time. To reiterate, for our part, we will do our best to restore our relations.
I would like to note that we in Russia also noticed how the 75th anniversary of Victory over Nazism was celebrated in Ukraine this year. I am aware that this is largely due to your efforts, and the efforts of your associates and your party. I am confident that many people in Ukraine are grateful to you for this.
Since this is our common victory, I would like to express our gratitude to you on behalf of the Russian people.
Viktor Medvedchuk: Thank you very much, Mr Putin.
You are right about the celebration of the 75th anniversary of our common victory, the victory of the Soviet people and the Soviet Union. This is exactly how Ukrainian veterans see it. Indeed, we did our best despite the political crisis, despite the fact that the ‘party of war’ is still strong in Ukraine, and despite the fact that the radicals tried in every possible way to disrupt the May 9 celebrations.
We gave our veterans the respect they deserve. We owe a debt of gratitude to them. Ukraine is home to 13,243 veterans of the Great Patriotic War. This number includes both those who fought and those who worked on the home front. We are talking about elderly people who need assistance. We did our best to bring the holiday to their homes under the current circumstances in Ukraine, and we wanted to pay tribute to them.
Incidentally, on May 9, we announced the creation of the social movement The Front Line in the Struggle to Perpetuate Historical Memory. In Ukraine, it has been a long time coming, because radical nationalists, and former and current authorities are trying to erase these greatest heroic actions of the past century from people’s memory.
We will continue to do all we can to make sure that our veterans are held in respect. We organised these celebrations not only in Kiev but across all of Ukraine – we paid tribute to the fallen and acknowledged those who are still alive. We were guided by our party’s ethics, as this is the ideology of the Opposition Platform for Life party. This is also our position as the second largest parliamentary faction and as the second – for the time being – party in the country.
Mr Putin, if you allow me, I would like to ask you two questions regarding my country and, primarily, Ukrainian citizens and, if possible, discuss them with you.
First, I want to congratulate you on a great victory, as Russia has become the first country to create a vaccine, the Sputnik V vaccine, at the Gamaleya Centre. I know that another vaccine is in the pipeline. The Russian Federation has yet again demonstrated its potential and scientific prowess.
It is clear in this context that all countries, including my country, Ukraine, have been plagued by this scourge, this great tragedy. The Ukrainian people are demanding protection and vaccination is the most reliable and, to all appearance, the most viable means of protection.
I would like to ask you to consider the possibility of distributing this vaccine to Ukraine, among other countries, so that in the future Ukrainians can be protected against this terrible disease, given that Russia is the first country to have created a vaccine and has started mass vaccination on its territory.
Despite the fact that relations between our countries are in crisis, I would ask you to consider this possibility in the future.
Vladimir Putin: I can say right away that this is possible. This vaccine has already arrived in all our regions. Unfortunately, it is not yet being produced in sufficient quantity. We need millions of doses.
As you may know, we are now working on it with our colleagues and friends in Belarus. We recently discussed this matter with Mr Lukashenko. The work there is on schedule as well.
Indeed, many research centres worldwide are working on it, and we wish everyone success. Some of our major institutions in St Petersburg and Novosibirsk are researching it as well. In Moscow, work continues at the Gamaleya Centre and other places. I hope that another Russian vaccine will be registered in the middle of October, just ten days from now. It is almost finished, and the work on it has been completed. I am referring to the Novosibirsk centre Vektor.
With regard to the vaccine you mentioned, yes, of course. Indeed, why not? If we started working with Belarus, we could work with Ukraine as well.
We would need to implement this plan in conjunction with the specialists from Ukraine. The official Ukrainian authorities should formulate their requests and needs accordingly. We are ready to do this regardless of the political difficulties. After all, this is a purely humanitarian matter, a healthcare issue, a matter of caring for the people we care about be it Russia or Ukraine.
So, we are ready to do this work. To reiterate, the corresponding authorities must come to an agreement at the official level.
Viktor Medvedchuk: I tested this vaccine on myself. My wife Oksana, our son Bogdan, and I took the vaccine during our holiday in Crimea in August. It went well, and I think it is the most effective remedy to date to fight the coronavirus.
Vladimir Putin: Did you have a fever?
Viktor Medvedchuk: No, no fever, no complications whatsoever. Neither my family nor I had anything worth mentioning. We took it very easily. In fact, it simply went unnoticed.
Vladimir Putin: We here in Russia are discussing this topic constantly. Our people are aware that there may be fever or body aches.
Viktor Medvedchuk: This is probably a natural process. It is a vaccine after all.
Vladimir Putin: This is natural for some types of vaccination. But it does not happen when some types of vaccines are used. At any rate this happens sometimes and it is necessary to know this. Many of my associates and close relatives have already been vaccinated, as well as employees working around me, dozens of people, about 50. Maybe seven or eight people had a fever. Their temperature was not too high but still higher than normal. But, reliable protection has been created. So again, we are certainly ready to do this with Ukraine.
Viktor Medvedchuk: Blood samples show that there are antibodies already, and in sufficient quantity.
Vladimir Putin: Do you mean yourself?
Viktor Medvedchuk: Yes, my wife and I both have them. My wife has even more than our son and I do. In other words, everything is normal. Therefore, naturally I would like to congratulate Russia on this high achievement because it is the first country in the world to have done this.
Vladimir Putin: Almost all top-ranking officials at our Defence Ministry have been vaccinated.
Viktor Medvedchuk: Well done.
Vladimir Putin: As well as those from other security services.
Viktor Medvedchuk: And one more question, if I may. I would like to ask you the following.
Obviously, Ukrainian-Russian relations have been difficult in the past few years. First, this involves economic and trade relations. This is partly due to the sanctions that were introduced by the Ukrainian authorities under Mr Poroshenko when Ukraine joined the EU sanctions against Russia. This move did huge damage to or industry and our economy as a whole. Many companies, dozens of thousands were shut down in Ukraine because their exports were primarily oriented to the Russian Federation.
Russia was Ukraine’s main trade partner during all these years, literally up to 2020. Ukraine’s biggest exports in the world went to Russia. Likewise, Ukraine’s biggest imports in the world were from Russia. This chronology and order only changed this year. At this point, Russia is our second largest partner because now China is on the fore.
We have the League of Industrialists and Employers, an association of 240 companies. They are involved in heavy equipment manufacturing, radio technology and agricultural engineering. All of them appealed to our party and me personally to try to partially cancel the sanctions and some product codes because a number of companies were oriented towards exporting to the Russian Federation.
Naturally, there was a loss of jobs because these companies, even those that addressed me for help today, including companies in the pulp and paper industry and winemaking, employ over 150,000 people. In fact, today these people are either without jobs or lead a life that does not allow them to support a family.
I have a good grasp of Russia’s policy. I think it is fairly objective when it comes to sanctions. The one who imposed them should lift them. Still, if I may, I would like to have these specific proposals, which I have put together in writing and which I want to submit to you, reviewed. Perhaps the Government could look into it and find a way to create conditions conducive to at least a partial lifting of the sanctions. If it is possible at all, of course.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Medvedchuk, the first issue you touched upon, fighting the coronavirus, is a purely humanitarian matter.
The second issue has more specifics to it, which you have just touched upon. These specifics boil down to the fact that we did not impose the sanctions. Everything we do, we do in response and with regard to the states that have taken certain steps with regard to Russia, against Russia.
I know what you are trying to say. And my heart aches from knowing that people in Ukraine who worked at the enterprises that sent their output to Russia found themselves in a difficult situation. This is the most important thing. I would like to fix this, of course. We are ready to do this. We want this situation to go back to normal. But we cannot make any exceptions from the list of the countries that have imposed sanctions on us. This is the main problem.
Nevertheless, we still need to prepare for this. Someday, I hope, this will come to pass. In this sense, of course, we probably need the Government to work on it as well.
You just mentioned a public organisation.
Vladimir Medvedchuk: Yes. The League of Industrialists and Employers.
Vladimir Putin: We could work on this with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other associations of entrepreneurs and, of course, the Government. I will ask my colleagues to set up a meeting with you and get this work going.
Viktor Medvedchuk: Thank you very much. I really would like to meet with the Prime Minister and discuss this issue in as much detail as possible, and to consider and study it. As you correctly said, we need to focus on restoring trade and economic relations, including in this area.
Vladimir Putin: I will let Mr Mishustin know.
<…>
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 6, 2020, 17:00
Text version