Events
Statement by President of Russia Vladimir Putin on a comprehensive program of measures for restoring the Russia – US cooperation in the field of international information security
September 25, 2020
13:30
One of today’s major strategic challenges is the risk of a large-scale confrontation in the digital field. A special responsibility for its prevention lies on the key players in the field of ensuring international information security (IIS). In this regard, we would like to once again address the US with a suggestion to agree on a comprehensive program of practical measures to reboot our relations in the field of security in the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs).
First. To restore a regular full-scale bilateral interagency high-level dialogue on the key issues of ensuring IIS.
Second. To maintain a continuous and effective functioning of the communication channels between competent agencies of our States through Nuclear Risk Reduction Centers, Computer Emergency Readiness Teams and high-level officials in charge of the issues of IIS within the bodies involved in ensuring national security, including that of information.
Third. To jointly develop and conclude a bilateral intergovernmental agreement on preventing incidents in the information space similarly to the Soviet-American Agreement on the Prevention of Incidents On and Over the High Seas in force since 25 May 1972.
Fourth. To exchange, in a mutually acceptable format, guarantees of non-intervention into internal affairs of each other, including into electoral processes, inter alia, by means of the ICTs and high-tech methods.
We call on the US to greenlight the Russian-American professional expert dialogue on IIS without making it a hostage to our political disagreements.
These measures are aimed at building up trust between our States, promoting security and prosperity of our peoples. They will significantly contribute to ensuring global peace in the information space. Addressing all countries, including the US, we suggest reaching global agreement on a political commitment of States on no-first-strike with the use of ICTs against each other.
Geography
United States
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 25, 2020, 13:30
Text version