Events
Presentation of Russian Federation National Awards
The President presented the 2019 National Awards at the Kremlin’s Catherine Hall.
June 24, 2020
15:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
11 of 13
Presentation of Russian Federation National Awards. With Chairperson of the Council of the Union of Russian Military Personnel Families Maria Bolshakova.
The 2019 National Awards in Science and Technology have been conferred on Andrei Golovnyov for his contribution to research into the cultural heritage of the Arctic indigenous peoples; on Dmitry Morozov, Andrei Ulitin, and Tatyana Chernovskaya for developing and introducing into clinical practice a complex of medicinal preparations based on monoclonal antibodies to treat cancer and autoimmune diseases; on Mikhail Predtechensky, Dmitry Markovich and Vladimir Meledin for creating the foundations of the global industry of single-wall carbon nanotubes and providing scientific substantiation for new methods of diagnostics and management of non-equilibrium systems.
The 2019 National Awards in Literature and Art have been conferred on Alexander Yermakov for establishing the Ivanovka Sergei Rachmaninoff Museum-Estate and for his educational activities; on Valentin Kurbatov for contributing to the preservation and development of the Russian literary tradition; on Galina Medvedeva for contributing to the preservation, study and development of the traditional verbal culture of Russian old-time inhabitants of Baikal, Siberia.
See also
Winners of 2019 Russian Federation National Awards announced
June 18, 2020
The 2019 Russian Federation National Awards for outstanding achievements in humanitarian activity have been conferred on Valery Vechorko, Chief Physician at Filatov Municipal Clinical Hospital No.15 of the Moscow Healthcare Department; and composer David Tukhmanov.
The 2019 Russian Federation National Award for human rights activity has been conferred on Maria Bolshakova, chairperson of the Council of the Union of Russian Military Personnel Families national public charity organisation; the National Award for charity work has been conferred on Konstantin Khabensky, theatre and cinema actor, film director, and founder of a charity foundation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Dear laureates, I welcome you at the National Award ceremony at the Kremlin.
This year we had to step back from the tradition of presenting the national awards on Russia Day. So when we had to change to a different date, we chose June 24, a day of glory and triumph in the history of our country and our people forever, for all times.
You know, we have already mentioned this many times – exactly 75 years ago, the legendary victors paraded on Red Square. And today, you saw for sure how the heirs of the soldiers of the Great Victory marched solemnly past.
We are proud of the great generation of victors and proud of Russia – a self-sufficient, strong and open country where people are respected and appreciated for their great deeds and outstanding achievements – courageous, purposeful, talented people devoted to their homeland and their work.
Additional
The 2019 National Award in Science and Technology has been conferred on Andrei Golovnyov for his contribution to research into the cultural heritage of the Arctic indigenous peoples
June 18, 2020
The 2019 National Awards in Science and Technology have been conferred on Dmitry Morozov, Andrei Ulitin, and Tatyana Chernovskaya for developing and introducing into clinical practice a complex of medicinal preparations based on monoclonal antibodies to treat cancer and autoimmune diseases
June 18, 2020
The 2019 National Awards in Science and Technology have been conferred on Mikhail Predtechensky, Dmitry Markovich and Vladimir Meledin for creating the foundations of the global industry of single-wall carbon nanotubes and providing scientific substantiation for new methods of diagnostics and management of non-equilibrium systems
June 18, 2020
The 2019 National Award in Literature and Art has been conferred on Alexander Yermakov for establishing the Ivanovka Sergei Rachmaninoff Museum-Estate and educational activities
June 18, 2020
The 2019 National Award in Literature and Art was conferred on Valentin Kurbatov for contributing to the preservation and development of the Russian literary tradition
June 18, 2020
The 2019 National Award in Literature and Art was conferred on Galina Medvedeva for contributing to the preservation, study and development of the traditional verbal culture of Russian old-time inhabitants of Baikal, Siberia
June 18, 2020
The 2019 Russian Federation National Award for outstanding achievements in humanitarian activity has been awarded to Valery Vechorko
June 18, 2020
The 2019 Russian Federation National Award for outstanding achievements in humanitarian activity has been awarded to David Tukhmanov
June 18, 2020
The 2019 Russian Federation National Award for outstanding achievements in human rights activity has been awarded to Maria Bolshakova, chairperson of the Council of the Union of Russian Military Personnel Families national public charity organisation
June 18, 2020
The 2019 Russian Federation National Award for outstanding achievements in charity work has been awarded to Konstantin Khabensky, founder of the Konstantin Khabensky Charity Foundation
June 18, 2020
All this fully applies to today’s laureates, that is, to you.
You are well aware of the circumstances that have made a lot of adjustments to our lives of late. Not all laureates could manage to attend this ceremony. Their awards will certainly be delivered to them later. But, of course, it is simply impossible to not even mention them now, today, at this National Awards ceremony.
This is especially true of the prize winners in humanitarian activities, as their awards are the highest recognition of achievements in the spiritual development of the Russian nation, consolidating its moral foundations and social harmony.
The 2019 National Award in humanitarian activity has been awarded to brilliant composer, creator of classical and popular music David Tukhmanov.
His music is loved by many generations. People love it because it reflects their dreams, concerns, feelings that are inherent to each person and the entire vast country, and it is always permeated by the composer’s personal and very sincere attitude to what he writes about.
Suffice it to remember David Tukhmanov’s patriotic pieces, the most famous of them the song “Victory Day” that people have made the anthem of our main holiday.
The 2019 National Award in humanitarian activity has been awarded to Valery Vechorko, chief physician at Moscow City Hospital No. 15.
He was appointed to lead the team not so long ago. Before that, he had travelled a long and dignified path in medicine. His talents as a doctor and organiser, someone who knows how to rally a team and is ready to take on tremendous responsibility, have been especially evident in recent months during the truly frontline battle with the coronavirus. We all know that here, the lives and health of thousands of people depend on the timely and competent actions of medical workers; and, unfortunately, the situation remains difficult.
The work done by a group of talented pharmacists – Andrei Ulitin, Dmitry Morozov and Tatyana Chernovskaya – has made a major contribution to keeping Russian people healthy.
For the first time in Russia, these winners of the National Award in Science and Technology have developed a unique scientific and industrial complex of ready dosage forms of monoclonal antibodies to treat malignant and autoimmune diseases.
This type of pharmaceuticals is highly effective and is in great demand; it is a fast growing segment. It is very important that Russia will now have its own advanced production facilities, which fully meet our domestic needs.
The 2019 National Award winners include one more group of Russian scientists.
Mikhail Predtechensky, Vladimir Meledin and Dmitry Markovich have launched a real scientific and technological revolution by creating a reactor capable of annually producing tens of tonnes of single-walled carbon nanotubes.
Unfortunately, Mr Predtechensky, the group’s leader, could not join us in Moscow today. I will underscore that he is actually the inventor of the technology that the international scientific community sought since the discovery of the unique properties of nanotubes – they greatly increase the strength of materials that are used in almost all areas of the economy and industry. It was our Russian scientists that finally found a solution, achieved absolute leadership here, and provided Russia with a strategic advantage in a critical area.
This breakthrough was made by physicists from Novosibirsk. I cannot avoid quoting Mikhail Lomonosov, who said Russia’s might would grow through Siberia and the Northern Ocean.
I have no doubt that leading Russian anthropologist Andrei Golovnyov, the world’s top expert on the culture of the peoples of the North, fully shares Lomonosov’s belief.
The National Award in Science and Technology was conferred on him for the outstanding results of his ethnographic expeditions.
Andrei Golovnyov has been involved in field research concerning the cultural heritage of the Arctic indigenous peoples for almost 40 years. The findings he accumulated during his studies have very broad practical applications. Indeed, an efficient and careful attitude to the Arctic is a priority for Russia, a country of the ‘northern dimension’, as Golovnyov put it. I completely agree with this and absolutely share his position.
Ethnography is also at the core of research carried out by Galina Medvedeva, winner of the 2019 National Award in Literature and Art.
She dedicated nearly 40 years of her life to the research and development of the culture of Eastern Siberia old-time residents, descendants of Russian pioneers, who preserved the priceless local folklore and linguistic heritage.
Her research was based on the results of 150 field expeditions to study the lifestyle and customs of more than 1,200 villages.
It is amazing how Ms Medvedeva manages to combine such intensive field work with effective teaching and writing. I am referring, among other things, to the 20-volume dictionary Folk Vocabulary in Valentin Rasputin’s Stories and Novels that describes dialects of residents of the Baikal area.
The legacy of Valentin Rasputin, a lauder of the Siberian land, was also reflected in the works by prominent literary critic and author Valentin Kurbatov.
His books about great Russian writers are now a true and perhaps the only guide to lead the contemporary reader into the world of ideas, sentiments and images of Russian literature of the 20th century. History and modernity are always closely linked in his publications and lectures on philosophy, poetry, painting and music.
Preserving the nation’s cultural heritage is also the life’s work of Alexander Yermakov.
Mr Yermakov was among the founders of the Ivanovka Sergei Rachmaninoff Museum-Estate in Tambov Region and has been heading it for over 40 years. The composer links his best years and the time of his creative growth to this place. Mr Yermakov restored the mansion and, moreover, he recreated in minute detail the entire space of the estate, turning Ivanovka into a modern, world-famous educational centre.
The Russian Federation National Awards are also being presented today to several people of impeccable moral authority.
They not only help others in difficult life situations, but also bring together caring, energetic, and talented people around them.
I am happy to welcome the winner of the National Award for human rights activism – Maria Bolshakova, chairperson of the Council of the Union of Russian Military Personnel Families.
Ms Bolshakova got involved with social protection and the rights of military service members and their families back in the late 1990s, a difficult time, very difficult for our army and for the country as a whole. It took tremendous perseverance and courage.
I know that you have travelled to hot spots with humanitarian aid and helped people overcome bureaucratic obstacles and an indifferent attitude – this also happens. I remember your letters full of civic and maternal pain about the situation in the troops.
I would underscore that it is largely thanks to you and people like you that the social and legal guarantees of the military and their families have become a state priority.
Konstantin Khabensky, the winner of the National Award for charity work, is also someone for whom helping others is vital.
More than 10 years ago, he established a charity foundation that helped children with brain cancer and other serious diseases of the brain.
Konstantin Khabensky put the popular love he rightfully enjoys in his acting career into that charity – a rare deed – and modelled this behaviour by using his personal experience of directing all his virtues to good deeds. He inspired many people to be open and sensitive to others’ problems, to unite and take action for the most important thing – for the sake of children's lives.
My friends,
I thank you all for the results and achievements that are so important for our country, our society, for your good deeds that inspire creativity, for the high standards you set for yourselves and others alike, for the pursuit of excellence in everything you do.
Each of you sets an impeccable benchmark of a life filled with the highest meaning: helping people and your Fatherland, working tirelessly, and supporting others wholeheartedly for the sake of a common goal, for the happiness and well-being of people, for the prosperity of our country, Russia.
Once again, I congratulate you on your National Awards. I wish you every success in your undertakings and projects, and may your goals fill you with energy and inspire new achievements.
And of course, in the current situation, I sincerely wish you good health and success in the future.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
One of the laureates here who is sitting opposite me and to my right spoke about her research in Siberian villages and the moral principles their life has been relying on for centuries. She spoke of mutual support and mutual assistance, of collective efforts, of combining efforts to address common problems. I must say this is the moral and ethical foundation Russia, in fact, has always relied on in the past and will always continue to rely on.
It was by combining efforts that we always achieved outstanding victories and remarkable results in nearly every field – in war, science, art and education. Everyone present at the Kremlin today comes from different groups that have contributed to Russia being referred to as a great power.
Thank you very much for your work, for your talent and for your results.
Thank you.
Topics
State awards
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for Science and Education, Council for Culture and Art
Publication date: June 24, 2020, 15:10
Text versionEvents
Reception for heads of state invited to military parade to mark 75th anniversary of Victory in Great Patriotic War
The Kremlin hosted a reception for the heads of state invited to the military parade to mark the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941–1945.
June 24, 2020
13:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
At the reception for heads of state invited to military parade to mark 75th anniversary of Victory in Great Patriotic War
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Once again, I would like to thank you all for coming to Moscow, despite the difficult circumstances we are all aware of, to attend the celebrations dedicated to the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
I have already said this, and I know this is obvious – it is a very significant event for our peoples, without any exaggeration, very dear to us all. Victory Day is celebrated in each of our countries.
Nothing has the power, as is often said, to extinguish the deep sincere feelings people have when they commemorate and honour their heroes. Every year, this holiday actually becomes even more pronounced and vibrant, with new traditions added to it, which is very important, such as, for example, the Immortal Regiment marches held in 115 states.
Of course, the military parades on Red Square to mark each anniversary of Victory arouse very special feelings. Thank you for your kind words when you noted that the Parade was held at the highest level. I can say with confidence that all the organisers, all our military personnel wholeheartedly did their best.
I am sure that the kind of cohesion that unites us, our spiritual unity in honouring an anniversary that was common for all of us, and still is, are also in harmony with the dreams and hopes of our dear veterans, everyone whose effort helped bring our shared and long-awaited Victory closer.
We have just laid flowers at the Eternal Flame as a tribute to the Unknown Soldier, a symbol of all those who never returned from the fronts of the Great Patriotic War.
We do not know – this is really so – we do not know the name, age, or nationality of this soldier who died in the battle of Moscow, but he is family to millions of people. Someone’s son, husband, brother, grandfather, or father. We will always remember them – those who never came home – and will always be proud of the entire generation of victors.
The feat of the brave fighters and selfless workers of the rear is an important integral part of the history of our countries, an invaluable example of the triumph of justice, humanitarianism (I spoke about this today at the parade), and the all-conquering force of unity, friendship and trust between our countries. These things have always remained our main pillars that support us in difficulties.
Today this is first of all a matter of global security, the fight against terrorism and against the pandemic, and most of the leaders present here know how we are addressing these problems as part of our associations, effectively and in a timely manner.
Once again, I would like to say that I am sincerely delighted to see you all in Moscow. The legendary parade of victors that took place 75 years ago is part of our shared history, as much as the Great Victory.
Allow me to propose a toast to our veterans, to our unity, to our past and future victories!
See also
Parade marking 75th anniversary of Great Victory
June 24, 2020
Laying flowers at Tomb of Unknown Soldier
June 24, 2020
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2020, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Parade marking 75th anniversary of Great Victory
President of Russia and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin attended the military parade marking the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941–1945.
June 24, 2020
11:15
Red Square, Moscow
14 of 76
Military parade to mark the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. Photo: RIA Novosti
President of Abkhazia Aslan Bzhania
, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
, President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
, President of Kyrgyzstan Sooronbay Jeenbekov
, President of Moldova Igor Dodon
, President of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic
, President of South Ossetia Anatoly Bibilov
, President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
, President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
, and Serb Chairman of the Presidency ofBosnia and Herzegovina Milorad Dodik arrived in Moscow for the commemorative events. Before the parade, Vladimir Putin welcomed the invited heads of state in the Heraldic Hall of the Moscow Kremlin.
Over 14,000 service personnel, more than 200 units of military hardware and 75 aircraft were engaged in the military parade to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War
.
Defence Minister Army General Sergei Shoigu
reviewed the parade, which was led by Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces Army General Oleg Salyukov.
At the onset of the Parade, the colour guard of the Preobrazhensky Regiment's battalion carried the Banner of Victory and the national flag of the Russian Federation into Red Square.
Officers and soldiers of the army, law enforcement agencies and cadets of military academies, military schools and Young Army members marched in over 40 parade formations.
Alongside Russian service personnel, parade formations from Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, China, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Mongolia, Serbia, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan took part in the parade
Apart from known military hardware, over 20 samples of new military equipment were showcased at the anniversary parade.
Deeply upgraded T90-M and T-80BVM tanks, BMP-2 infantry fighting vehicles with the Berezhok fighting compartment, Kurganets-25 infantry fighting vehicle with a 57 mm combat module, Armata infantry fighting vehicle with the Kinzhal fighting module, Derivatisya-PVO anti-aircraft artillery systems, Buk-3M and S-350 “Vityaz” air defence systems, and S-300V4 Pantsir-S1M anti-aircraft systems drove along Red Square.
In addition, Tornado-S multiple launch rocket systems, Bal coastal missile systems, Taifun-K and Taifun-K VDV all-wheel-drive protected vehicles with remotely controlled combat modules, TOS-2 heavy flame-throwing systems, and ISDM remote mining system vehicles participated in the parade.
The airborne part of the parade was represented by 75 aircraft flying in 16 groups. Thus, the Mi-26 heavy transport helicopter flew by accompanied by four Mi-8 helicopters, three groups of five Mi-35, Ka-52 and Mi-28 helicopters in each of them. Military transport, special and long-range aviation was represented by A-50, Il-76, Tu-95, Tu-22, Tu-160 and Il-78 aircraft. Two groups of MiG-29 and Su-24 fighter jets of the tactical air force flew over in the “peleng” combat echelon. Bringing up the rear were two groups of one element each of MiG-31K and Su-57 aircraft.
In the final part, a formation of 10 tactical force jets in a compact tactical fighter wing and Russian Knights and Strizhi aerobatic teams took part in a fly-past over Red Square. To conclude the airborne part, a group of six Su-25 attack jets flew over spraying aerosols that matched the colours of the Russian national flag.
* * *
The President’s speech at the military parade
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: People of Russia,
Our dear veterans,
Foreign guests,
Soldiers and sailors, sergeants, warrant officers and ensigns, Officers, generals and admirals,
I wish you all the best on the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. A victory that determined the future of the planet for decades to come and went down in history as the grandest in its scale, significance and moral value.
This year, the traditional Victory Day celebrations are being held in Russia on June 24. Exactly 75 years ago, the legendary victors paraded right here, along the Kremlin wall, to commemorate the end of the Great Patriotic War.
That parade went down in history as a triumph of unprecedented scale, the triumph of good over evil, of peace over war, and life over death.
On behalf of all the defenders of the Fatherland, they threw the defeated banners and standards of the Nazis down to the ground with contempt, as a sign of just retribution and dire warning.
The combined regiments of various fronts and fleets marched through Red Square. And everyone who fought for their homeland bravely, not sparing themselves, who returned with Victory, as well as millions of soldiers who remained forever on the battlefields invisibly joined their firm measured march.
Today we bow our heads to the sacred memory of all those who never came back, to the memory of sons, daughters, fathers, mothers, grandfathers, husbands, wives, brothers, sisters, fellow soldiers, relatives and friends. We grieve over the veterans who have already left us.
I proclaim a moment of silence.
(A moment of silence.)
We will always remember that Nazism was crushed by the Soviet people – by millions of people of different ethnicity from all republics of the Soviet Union.
At the front and in the rear, in partisan groups and underground resistance, they fought and worked relying on their courage and unity. Having defended their homeland, they continued to fight. They liberated European countries from the invaders, put an end to the terrible tragedy of the Holocaust, and saved the people of Germany from Nazism with its deadly ideology.
It is impossible to even imagine what would have happened to the world had it not been for the Red Army that stood up to defend it.
Its soldiers did not want war, or other countries, or glory, or honours. All they wanted was to finish off the enemy, to gain victory and return home. And they paid an irreparable price for Europe’s freedom. Many hundreds of thousands of soldiers died in foreign lands.
Our duty is to always remember this. Remember that the Soviet people shouldered the main burden of the fight against Nazism.
In 1941, over 80 percent of the armed forces of Germany and its satellites were concentrated to fight the Soviet Union. But this ruthless armada proved powerless against the cohesion of the Soviet people.
It was our people who defeated the terrible, total evil, crushed more than 600 divisions, destroyed 75 percent of the total number of Nazi aircraft, tanks, artillery units, and walked their righteous and infinitely sacrificial path to the end, to their victorious destination.
This is the main truth about the war, honest and clear. We must protect and defend it, and pass it on to our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Today’s military parade is a tribute to this sacred truth, to the outstanding generation of victors who determined the outcome of the entire World War II.
Representatives of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Moldova, Mongolia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan will march in this parade along with Russian soldiers.
We are happy to welcome our friends, guests from various countries who came to Moscow to pay tribute to everyone who defended peace on the planet.
We will never forget our allies’ contribution to the common victory, the significance of the second front that opened in June 1944. We honour the brave service members of the armed forces of all countries of the anti-Hitler coalition, and respect the feat of all fighters against Nazism who battled fearlessly in Europe.
In the context of the challenges the planet is facing today, we also know, and are especially keenly aware of what the greatest value is – people, their dreams, joys, hopes, and a peaceful, tranquil and creative life.
We understand how important it is to strengthen friendship and trust between nations, and are open to dialogue and cooperation on the most pressing issues on the international agenda.
Among them is the creation of a common reliable security system, something the complex and rapidly changing modern world needs. Only together can we protect the world from new dangerous threats.
Friends,
The surviving veterans of the Great Patriotic War now live in many different countries. But their great joint feat of saving entire nations from eradication, barbarism and enslavement cannot be split and divided. That heroic deed, without any exaggeration, is the legacy of all humankind.
Dear veterans, our gratitude to you is immeasurable. You have proven with your life and your fight how important it is to be able to defend the values of peace, humanism and justice.
We will do everything in our power to ensure that the memory of your heroic accomplishments never fades. It is our duty of conscience and our responsibility to the present and the future.
Glory to the generation that defeated Nazism!
Glory to the heroes of the Great Patriotic War!
Hoorah!
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 24, 2020, 11:15
Text version