Events
Meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov
Vladimir Putin and Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov discussed issues related to the fuel and energy sector.
February 17, 2020
14:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Borisov, your area of responsibility has expanded significantly in the new Government as you now oversee such a large and important sphere for our economy as the fuel and energy sector. Let us begin our meeting with this.
Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov
: Mr President, first, I would like to thank you for your trust. This area is new for me, and I am actively studying the problems of the fuel and energy sector. I have given myself three months to learn all that I can, mostly by visiting the key fuel and energy facilities.
I have already seen the Market Council, visited Rosseti and the System Operator of the Unified Energy Complex, and attended the opening ceremony of a hydropower plant in North Ossetia – Alania [Zaramagskaya HPP-1], a unique facility with a capacity of 346 MW, which, of course, offers new opportunities to the region. I would like to take this moment to pass on the gratitude and best regards from the regional leadership to you.
In addition, Mr Belousov
and I are working together closely to relaunch the innovation cycle. At the last Government meeting, four draft laws were reviewed and supported, which will provide a real opportunity to implement anchor projects in the Arctic, in particular, for Rosneft and other oil-producing companies, which is very important. Of course, they will stimulate Russia’s economy.
We are also working in line with your instruction to develop support measures for Russian producers that can be easily understood and put into effect in order to ensure as much presence on the domestic market as possible, especially during the implementation of national projects and also state procurement, including the implementation of our natural monopolies’ investment programmes. This is an enormous amount of money that can give a significant boost to our economy and industry.
These are the main points I am closely working on.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Persons
Borisov Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 17, 2020, 14:15
Text version