Events
Meeting of the Council for Local Self-Government Development
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Council for Local Self-Government Development in Krasnogorsk to discuss the role of local self-government in implementing national projects.
January 30, 2020
20:15
Krasnogorsk, Moscow Region
1 of 7
Meeting of the Council for Local Self-Government Development.
Before the meeting, the President toured the Moscow Region Governance Centre.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Where is Mr Golubev [Rostov Region Governor]?
Our colleague, Vasily Golubev, has a birthday today. Happy birthday to you!
Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today, we will discuss the key goals and plans for the development of local self-government.
As we often repeat, and it is true, this level of public government is the closest to the people and, thus, has a lot of responsibility. No matter where people live they want to live a decent life. They want to have safe and good roads, well-lit streets and neat courtyards, well-equipped and comfortable sports facilities and children’s playgrounds. All this determines the quality of life for our citizens and affects the future of our children.
Our common goal is to ensure the efficiency of local self-government and remove gaps and lack of coordination between the regions and municipalities.
At the federal level, we need to improve the coordination of everything that concerns local self-government. In this context, I would like to ask you to start drafting new basic principles of national policy on local self-government development through to 2030.
The main thing is, it is imperative to improve the municipal governments’ financial stability as this is the cause of many difficulties in your work.
I suggest that the regions implement measures similar to the federal measures on restructuring budget loans with regard to the municipalities’ budget loans, which account for about 25 percent of the municipalities’ budget system. Based on the municipalities’ spending to address priority issues on the ground, this, of course, should be done with consideration for additional regional budget revenue from implementing investment projects in the municipalities.
As you know, local self-government bodies are not part of the government system. At the same time, they are not located somewhere in outer space, or on the Moon. They are part of our society, country and governance system. The fact that they act independently within their authority does not mean that Russia’s single political, economic, cultural, or transport space is fragmented. On the contrary, efficient performance by each level of government of their duties and close interaction, as well as business partnership, is the basis and guarantee of fulfilling our plans to improve the living standards in Russia.
So, it is very important to ensure the unity of all levels of government. If you noticed, and I am sure you did, I mentioned this in my Address [to the Federal Assembly], when I suggested enshrining this specific principled provision in the Constitution.
I would like to emphasis: the constitutional amendments under discussion do not affect the fundamental provisions of the first and second chapters of our Basic Law, which, as you may know, guarantee local self-government bodies’ independence. We will strictly follow them and provide a proper environment for each municipality in Russia, so that it can work efficiently for the benefit of the people and actively participate in achieving the national development goals as a dependable, rather than some kind of weak or inert, link in the government.
Moreover, the majority of national projects focus on local matters, and the role of local self-government in implementing them will increase many times over if the municipalities and civil society establish strong and effective interaction.
National projects are being implemented through our people’s efforts, talent and initiative. So, municipal officials should not spend too much time in their offices. They ought to be out there discussing the most pressing issues with the people instead.
Mechanisms for direct communication between the authorities and the people have already been created in many regions. Modern digital technology makes it possible to quickly respond to people’s everyday problems, initiatives and requests, respond appropriately and therefore to more quickly and efficiently resolve everyday problems (we just saw how this is done, and our colleagues from the Moscow Region also showed how this works in real life, not just in the Moscow Region, but in many other regions as well).
We saw great examples here in Krasnogorsk. But Krasnogorsk, Tatarstan, Moscow and a few more regions are not enough. These positive practices need to be replicated throughout the country. Similar digital platforms need to be created in every region, major cities and local self-government centres. Should any of them lack budget funds of their own, such initiatives must be supported at other levels.
It is also necessary to analyse ways of encouraging the best municipalities and local project teams and, as I said, to replicate these managerial solutions.
Let's discuss this.
<…>
See also
Council for the Local Self-Government Development
Geography
Moscow Region
Topics
Local self-government
Persons
Reshetnikov Maxim
Vorobyov Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Local Self-Government Development
Publication date: January 30, 2020, 20:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with Prime Minister of the State of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu, who has come to Russia on a short working visit.
January 30, 2020
11:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
With Prime Minister of the State of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
We are delighted to welcome you to Moscow.
Of course, I have to say a few words about my visit to Israel. I would like to once again thank you personally, because I know that you were among the initiators of the monument to the victims of the Leningrad siege in Jerusalem. The monument is wonderful, you have found a perfect place for it, and, of course, the ceremony was very impressive and emotional.
After that, we attended a major international event to honour the memory of Holocaust victims. Over 40 countries were represented at the highest level. It was a major occasion for Israel and the rest of the world.
Mr Prime Minister, you asked for the release of an Israeli citizen, who was serving a prison term in Russia on drugs charges. I would like to note the role played by the Patriarch of Jerusalem, who had brought me a letter from the young woman’s mother. As you are aware, I have signed an Executive Order pardoning her.
She was lucky in that she had not crossed the Russian border; the drugs were found in her luggage when it was moved from one plane to another. Please, convey my best regards to her, her family and her mother.
We will certainly be able to discuss, even if only briefly, our bilateral relations. Talks on a free trade zone are underway between Israel and the Eurasian Economic Commission. Our bilateral relations are improving in the field of the economy and humanitarian ties. You initiated several areas of our cooperation. They are developing quite actively.
I am delighted to have this opportunity to discuss these areas of our cooperation with you, as well as regional developments.
Welcome to Moscow.
Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
(retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President.
All our earlier visits and meetings, as well as this visit, symbolise the fact that our relations have become even stronger.
I would like to congratulate you and to thank you for the important statements you made during your visit to Israel. All of us will remember your touching words during the ceremony for inaugurating the monument in honour of residents and defenders of besieged Leningrad. You talked about your family, your personal destiny and the common destiny of those people who survived the siege of Leningrad. After that, you delivered another moving and important speech during the celebration of the 75th anniversary of liberating the Auschwitz concentration camp. We will remember this.
Second, in Israel we touched upon some issues related to our region. We held talks with our American friends, and I can tell you about some things that are linked with this.
Third, I would like to thank you on behalf of the entire Israeli nation for your quick decision to release Naama Issachar. This has touched us all, and the gratitude of all Israeli people comes from the bottom of our hearts.
Mr President, you are the first world leader with whom I am meeting and speaking after my visit to Washington and after the unveiling of the Trump
peace plan. I think that we have another special opportunity to talk today, and I would like to hear your opinion and to see how we can gather strength for peace and a conflict-free existence.
I have to say that relations between Israel and Russia are now more solid and better than ever before. Mr President, I would like to thank you for your personal role and for your leadership in this and other areas.
<…>
See also
Visit to Israel
January 23, 2020
Executive Order to pardon Naama Issachar
January 29, 2020
Geography
Israel
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Netanyahu Benjamin
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 30, 2020, 11:40
Text version