Events
Meeting with former Government members
January 29, 2020
15:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 5
Meeting with former Government members.
Vladimir Putin met with Government members who have resigned. The President noted that the Cabinet had done much to promote the country’s strategic development in spite of difficult circumstances. The President thanked the former Government members for their work.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
I wanted to meet with you. We actually agreed on this when I was at the White House after the decision to change the Government was made. I said I wanted to meet with everyone here, and now here we are. I am meeting with some of our colleagues who have stayed in the Government or are moving to new roles primarily to thank them for their cooperation over the years.
The Government, led by Mr Medvedev, operated in a difficult environment, confronted by numerous challenges, but I think plans are never fulfilled 100 percent. Overall, I believe that the Government accomplished a lot of important things to promote the country’s long-term strategic development.
Determining the goals of national development and developing a mechanism for achieving these goals in the form of national projects was not easy. Comprehensive and diverse efforts to expand the country's economy and social sphere were not easy, either. Nevertheless, a lot has been accomplished.
I want to thank you once again and express hope that you will use your potential and your extensive personal and professional experience in your new assignments to move forward on a personal level and to address the tasks that will be set for you. I believe we will form a large tight-knit team. I am counting on you and I know that it will be interesting for you and good for the country.
Almost everyone here knows where they will work next, but there remain just a couple of subtle points. I think we will finalise them during today's meeting. Thank you very much again, and I wish you all the best in your new positions.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 29, 2020, 15:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting on measures to counter the spread of coronavirus in Russia
January 29, 2020
15:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting on measures to counter the spread of coronavirus in Russia.
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus on the territory of the Russian Federation. Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
, Healthcare Minister Mikhail Murashko
and Head of Rospotrebnadzor (Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare) Anna Popova
submitted relevant reports to the President.
In late December 2019, the Chinese authorities reported an outbreak of pneumonia of unknown origin in the city of Wuhan. Experts tentatively established that a new type of coronavirus – 2019-nCoV – was the pathogen of the disease.
According to the latest data, 5,974 people in China have been infected with the new type of coronavirus, including 132 people who died. Cases of infection have been reported in Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Nepal, Malaysia, Australia, the United States, Canada, France and Germany.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
We are all aware of the frenzy surrounding the coronavirus that was reported in the People’s Republic of China. Unfortunately, you know, there have already been fatalities.
The Russian Government has prepared a number of measures to prevent the virus from spreading in the country. I would like to hear your perspective on this subject, what measures are being taken, and what the Government intends to do in the near future.
Go ahead, please.
Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova: Mr President,
Let me begin by saying that as early as in late December the Government of the Russian Federation, alerted by the People’s Republic of China, took a number of meaningful steps to prevent this new virus from spreading on the territory of the Russian Federation.
We set up epidemic controls, and took additional measures to step up sanitary and quarantine checkpoints at the national border. Moreover, we devised algorithms for medical staff in case of possible infections with the new coronavirus, and ensured effective oversight of medical institutions dealing with people who got infected or receiving patients from regions in the People’s Republic of China that were exposed to the virus.
In addition to this, we worked out modalities for ensuring that people suspected of having the coronavirus are immediately isolated and placed under medical observation, and I would like to emphasise that this will be done immediately. We established algorithms for carrying out laboratory tests to identify the new coronavirus. I will highlight a number of other measures later during my remarks. We are training extra medical personnel, in case we need to undertake proactive response measures in all regions of the Russian Federation.
As early as on January 24, at the Government’s initiative, Chief State Sanitary Physician Anna Popova issued a resolution setting out a list of initiatives designed to prevent the new virus from spreading across the territory of the Russian Federation. Since we launched these efforts in late December, already during the first days of January the Novosibirsk-based state research centre Vektor, which is a world-class genetic research facility, developed two test systems based on data provided by the People’s Republic of China to the World Health Organisation.
Vektor is currently producing these test systems, and as production volumes increase we are constantly expanding our capacities in order to be able to make them available across the country for identifying the coronavirus.
Reinforced two-stage controls were introduced at the national border for screening people arriving from regions that were exposed. All people presenting any symptoms of acute respiratory diseases are taken to hospital. I would like to thank our citizens arriving from the People’s Republic of China for their responsible attitude when subjected to screening procedures. They stay perfectly calm when facing possible delays due to screenings.
As we have been reporting to the media on a daily basis, since the start of the monitoring efforts, we identified 139 people who were sick, but there was not a single coronavirus case. We have to understand however that although there have been no coronavirus cases so far, it is still possible that the infection has penetrated Russian territory, since 15 countries have already reported coronavirus cases, considering the number of people who travelled from Wuhan before the city and the province were placed under lockdown.
Nevertheless, as I have already mentioned, we are taking all necessary precautions, and are beginning to work on a vaccine against this coronavirus. Vektor in Novosibirsk is working on this.
In addition, we are working in close contact with the WHO and the People’s Republic of China, and overall have been steadfast in view of the recommendations we receive from our colleagues.
I would also like Ms Popova to take the floor.
Head of the Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare Anna Popova: Thank you very much.
Mr President,
Ms Golikova has already said a few words about the test system. It was put in place fairly quickly. It will allow us to identify patients who are infected with this virus.
We created this system five days after the results were published and now we take 25,000 samples per week for testing at Vektor. We will double this number in ten days and increase it fourfold in another week. This is enough for the needs of the Russian Federation.
We are coordinating our activities and measures to protect the country from the new coronavirus with our colleagues from the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union considering our common space. This recent undertaking that we carried out together, which was also joined by our colleagues from Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, showed that these countries also need this test system.
It is really new and very effective. With your instruction and permission, we can share it with our colleagues in other countries so they can benefit from this protection as well.
I would like to say a few words about our work at the border. We are conducting very tight control and are screening over 20,000 different flights. We have monitored over a million people since December 31, 2019. This is a lot of work, but I must say that it is being done well.
I would like to mention again the appropriate response of Russian citizens to these measures. This certainly delays them for at least several minutes and sometimes up to half an hour. And today’s screenings that we have launched show people’s high activity and a civic position.
We are closely following the incidence of influenza and pneumonia in the Russian Federation because flu season is coming. To be able to distinguish one from the other we are working harder than usual. We know about all cases of flu and pneumonia in the Russian Federation and are recording them very attentively.
I would like to note that following on from the resolution of the Chief State Sanitary Doctor, action plans, internal mobilisation, response and public awareness plans have been adopted in practically all Russian regions. I am referring to Moscow, Kaliningrad, Kursk, Tver, and Smolensk, to name a few. We are continuing our efforts in order to protect the population of the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
We understand well that regrettably, every year all countries, including ours, lose people because of both the flu and pneumonia. So we have a common goal – to minimise these losses and do all we can to eliminate them.
As for the new coronavirus, the main point is that it is new. The question is whether we are ready for this challenge. I believe the Government, Healthcare Ministry and Rospotrebnadzor will do all they can to put an end to any surprises for the overwhelming majority of our people. All of us must be ready for this.
Tatyana Golikova: We will certainly do this, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Healthcare
Persons
Golikova Tatyana
Murashko Mikhail
Popova Anna
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 29, 2020, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Minister President of Bavaria Markus Soeder
Vladimir Putin received Minister President of the federal German state of Bavaria Markus Soeder in the Kremlin.
January 29, 2020
16:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 5
Meeting with Minister President of Bavaria Markus Soeder.
The Russian representatives at the meeting included Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
and Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Minister President, colleagues,
I am very happy to see you. Welcome!
I know that you will be meeting with the Moscow Mayor. Moscow and Bavaria have always had very good relations. I must say that I have always had very good, friendly and business-like relations with your predecessors.
This is not by accident; representatives of Bavaria are very active in Russia. In 1995 Bavaria opened a mission in Russia and it has been working quite successfully in a variety of areas since then. It is fair to say that, as far as I know, every fifth German company operating in Russia is from Bavaria. More than half of all big German investments in the Russian economy have been made by companies registered in Bavaria.
I know that Moscow is not your only partner in Russia. Many Russian regions are working with you. We are always happy to see our guests, friends and partners.
Welcome!
Minister President of Bavaria Markus Soeder (retranslated: Thank you very much for your time and the chance to exchange opinions. Actually, Bavaria and Moscow have maintained close relations for 25 years now. These relations remained constant regardless of the political climate, and we are very pleased with that.
This morning I met with Mayor Sobyanin, and I had an opportunity to see the remarkable results that Moscow has achieved in recent years in terms of urban and infrastructure development.
We are interested in expanding economic relations, which are important to us. Economically, we are still Germany’s strongest state. We are investing lots of money and do not want to stop there.
We have an extensive agenda in the hi-tech industry, where we invest in developing artificial intelligence as much as all of Germany at the level of university departments and academia.
In research, we invest a lot in the aerospace industry, because we are – and intend to remain – number one in Germany in this area. We invest a lot in “clean technology,” that is, cars, the environment and climate protection.
Our main goal is to make Bavaria the number one economic powerhouse. That is why, in today's agreement we are focusing so much on promoting economic and research relations. Student and university exchanges are important to us.
In principle, the German and, in particular, the Bavarian economy is still waiting in the wings and wants to achieve much more. So, it is important (and we really hope to see it happen) for our relations, which are already good, to become even better.
For example, resolving major political issues, which you are undoubtedly well aware of, such as the Normandy process that has really taken off, Libya and cooperation in the murder investigation in Berlin will hopefully help us expand our relations even more. We are very interested in establishing and maintaining contacts.
This year, the historical aspect will be important. In addition to economic relations, it is important to be respectful of history and to try to learn from it. So, relations between Germany and Russia, not just Bavaria and Russia, are important.
Let me greet you on behalf of [former Bavarian Minister President] Edmund Stoiber, and, of course, the Federal Chancellor [Angela Merkel] who specially asked me to do this.
Thank you again.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 29, 2020, 16:45
Text version