    Events Easter greetings   Vladimir Putin greeted
Orthodox Christians and all citizens of Russia celebrating Easter Sunday.    April 19, 2020  09:00                 Easter greetings.       President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends, With great sincerity, I extend
greetings to all Orthodox Christians on the day of Christ’s Resurrection, the great holiday of Easter.I know that members of all religious
denominations and followers of all traditional religions in Russia will join me
in these greetings. This year celebrations are being held under mandated restrictions. They are
necessary to fight the spread of the coronavirus infection, a disease that is
by now known throughout the world.By joining
efforts, together we are overcoming challenges as they emerge. And as I have
repeatedly said, we have everything we need for this – a healthy and strong
economy, scientific capabilities, the necessary material base and highly professional healthcare.  See also     Greetings to Orthodox Christians and all Russians celebrating Easter Sunday April 19, 2020       Easter greetings to Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia April 19, 2020     We are carefully
monitoring the experience of foreign countries and are engaged in active cooperation
with our foreign friends and colleagues. We are aware of what is going on and see the risks, and we know what needs to be done under any circumstance we might face. We are doing what is required, and in a pre-emptive manner.True, all
these steps to protect people’s lives and health and support the economy
require vast additional resources and funds. We have them. And we are making use
of them – thriftily, and selectively and with the main priority of helping
people and families who have found themselves in a difficult situation.Authorities
on all levels are functioning in a streamlined, orderly manner and recognize the responsibility before them. The situation is under total control. Our society as a whole becomes united when confronted
with a common threat. I would like to again thank those who responded to the call of their hearts and lent a helping hand to their
neighbours, to those who need it most. Thank you to all of you again. There is
no doubt that we will overcome all the trials we are facing. And today’s spiritual and joyous event and centuries-long Easter traditions will also provide the support
each of us needs, while
also strengthening our hope and faith. Because Easter and the Resurrection of Christ are tokens of the triumph of life over all its adversaries. It is a symbol of purification,
revival and the continuity of life. As the saying goes, God helps those who help themselves That is what we do. But on this brilliant
holiday of Christ’s Resurrection
I feel the need to say – With God’s help, everything will be fine.  Happy Easter. Be happy and healthy.         Topics  Religion                          Publication status Published in sections: News, Transcripts  Publication date:    April 19, 2020, 09:00  Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/63222    Text version        NaN /  