Events
Meeting on Russian peacekeeping mission in Nagorno-Karabakh
The President held a meeting on the Russian peacekeeping mission in Nagorno-Karabakh, via videoconference.
November 20, 2020
19:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Meeting on the Russian peacekeeping mission in Nagorno-Karabakh, via videoconference.
The meeting was attended by Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak
, Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
and Commander of the Russian Peacekeeping Contingent in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict zone and Deputy Commander of the troops in the Southern Military District Lt-Gen Rustam Muradov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
I have called this meeting today to return once again to the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh.
Conflicts like this, their settlement is particularly important to us. It has special significance for us and plays a special role. These are not empty words for us. I am referring to the fact that millions of Armenians and Azerbaijanis live in Russia. We are linked with their republics by centuries-long ties, without exaggeration. This also has a domestic political dimension for us and is very important for our domestic security and politics. The CIS is our foreign policy priority, an obvious fact for everyone. This matters a lot for the economy as well.
We all know well that we have special relations with these republics: deep cooperation and interchangeability. I will not list all the components of this extremely important direction on the CIS track.
As I said at the November 13 meeting, now the priority task is to support and help the residents of this region who sustained heavy damage from the hostilities.
An Interdepartmental Centre for Humanitarian Response is being created to resolve the problems at hand. I am aware that, given the tasks facing the centre, specialised divisions are now being formed.
I would like to take this opportunity to point out the precise and well-coordinated work of the Russian peacekeepers. Prompt demining has made it possible to establish reliable communications in the region, and deploying our peacekeeping forces made it possible to stop the bloodshed and avoid more casualties. Our military is maintaining effective control over the ceasefire, which is being observed by both sides. Overall, the situation has stabilised.
In addition, the Russian service personnel is escorting refugees and bringing residential buildings, roads, and social facilities up to code. They are ensuring security for convoys with humanitarian supplies as well.
Let me emphasise that our humanitarian efforts and aid should benefit both the Armenian and Azerbaijani peoples. We empathise with everyone who is in trouble.
You may be aware that I am in constant touch with my colleagues in Armenia and Azerbaijan. I agreed with both leaders that a Russian interdepartmental delegation consisting of the heads of a number of ministries and departments would be sent to Armenia and Azerbaijan soon. Its goal is to review the most pressing issues of implementing the trilateral statement of November 9, including, of course, humanitarian issues. I hope that the upcoming consultations will help us make significant progress in these areas.
Mobilisation and international assistance are of particular importance. Our peacekeepers have created the basis for this. I am aware that people in many countries are concerned about the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh and empathise with the people in this plight. However, safe conditions for humanitarian organisations have been created, and there remains much to accomplish.
The International Committee of the Red Cross has the leading role here. Red Cross President Peter Maurer visited Moscow two days ago and confirmed the organisation's readiness to step up its activities in Yerevan, Baku and Stepanakert while relying on support from Russia and Russian peacekeepers.
I consider it important that representatives from other international agencies follow this example. I am referring to the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), the World Health Organisation (WHO), the World Food Programme (WFP) and the UN Mine Action Service (UNMAS).
The UN Development Programme (UNDP) will be called on to play a positive role later, when we come to the task of post-conflict recovery.
I would like to emphasise the need to protect historical and religious landmarks, both in Azerbaijan and Armenia. This issue is of great moral and human importance. I believe UNSCO’s involvement is much needed in this respect.
We also hope for UNESCO’s aid to children and teenagers that are particularly defenceless when confronted with the horrors of armed conflicts.
The Russian Foreign Ministry has instructions to work in all of these areas. We expect to receive tangible results in the near future.
Our humanitarian efforts and the involvement of the relevant international agencies will eventually help us find a reliable and long-term political settlement in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. We will continue developing cooperation with our partners in the OSCE Minsk Group on this foundation.
I have evaluated our common efforts and hope that our work will continue.
Let us hear the reports. I would first like to hear what you have to say. Based on this, we will agree on the next steps.
Mr Shoigu, please.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
Under your executive order, the Russian peacekeeping contingent has been deployed on the territory of Nagorno-Karabakh and has begun implementing its tasks. The 15th detached motorised infantry brigade units that form the backbone of the peacekeeping contingent have been prepared and transferred to the conflict zone. In all, 250 flights have been made to carry 1,960 people and 552 units of equipment.
Today, the Lachin corridor and the Nagorno-Karabakh territory are fully controlled by Russian peacekeeping units. They are monitoring the ceasefire from 23 observation posts. A control system for prompt response to any change in the situation has been deployed to carry out the peacekeeping mission. General Headquarters has coordinated and established direct communication channels with the military departments of Azerbaijan and Armenia.
Since November 14, Russian peacekeepers have ensured the safe return of 4,436 refugees to Stepanakert, those who fled the conflict zone earlier. We have established cooperation with representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the leaders of Nagorno-Karabakh.
The Armenian and Azerbaijani parties are exchanging bodies of military personnel under the coordinating role of the Russian peacekeepers. The Lachin corridor and a 28 km section of the road to Stepanakert have been fully cleared of mines, other explosive devices and combat hardware destroyed during the hostilities. Safe civilian traffic has been opened on this section since November 17.
As for implementing the memorandum on creating a joint Russian-Turkish centre in Azerbaijan for monitoring the ceasefire and combat activities, we are finishing our talks with the Turkish representatives on the location and tasks of this centre.
The measures taken by the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation will ensure unconditional implementation of the trilateral statement and facilitate stabilisation in the region, helping Armenian and Azerbaijani residents return to peaceful life in Nagorno-Karabakh.
Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
I would like to ask you to give the floor to the Commander of the Peacekeeping Contingent Lt-Gen Muradov who will report on the local situation in more detail.
Vladimir Putin: Please, Mr Muradov, go ahead.
Commander of the Russian peacekeeping contingent Lieutenant General Rustam Muradov: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief, good afternoon.
Commander of the Russian peacekeeping contingent in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict zone, Lieutenant General Rustam Muradov reporting.
The Russian peacekeeping contingent, in line with the set objectives, is supervising the implementation of the agreements on the ceasefire and all hostilities along the contact line between the two parties in Nagorno-Karabakh.
No ceasefire violations or provocations have been recorded. Some small incidents are being settled by peacekeeping contingent representatives on the ground. For this purpose, cooperation with the commands of the conflicting parties in the zones of operation and the municipal authorities has been established.
The territory of Nagorno-Karabakh has been divided into zones of responsibility. The northern zone is monitored from 11 observation posts by the 1st Battalion of the 15th Motorised Rifle Brigade. The southern zone in the Lachin Corridor, by the 2nd Battalion from 12 observation posts. A command post has been established in the city of Stepanakert from which the peacekeeping forces are controlled. The observation posts have been provided with all forms of communication, including closed, satellite and video conferencing. Work is underway on providing them with mobile video monitoring equipment, which will allow for distant all-round observation including at night.
In addition, drones are being used around the clock to monitor the situation. Russian peacekeeping personnel are being provided with rations, pay and allowances in accordance with the current standards.
Comrade Commander-in-Chief, today, in strict compliance with the trilateral statement, the Peacekeeping Command, with the Russian peacekeepers, has completed the mission on withdrawing the Armenian armed units from Agdam district, which was surrendered to the Azerbaijani side.
The Russian peacekeepers understand the full responsibility of the objectives set before them and are ready to pursue them in strict compliance with the instructions issued by you and the Defence Minister.
Comrade Commander-in-Chief, Lieutenant General Muradov’s report is complete.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Muradov, after the Armenian units withdraw from some of the districts, say, Agdam and Lachin, Armenian civilians will remain there.
Obviously, our peacekeepers are on the contact line, but I know that you have good relations with both sides, the Armenian and the Azerbaijani sides. The people who occupy the positions abandoned by the Armenian army – of course, they are conflicting parties, yet the conflict is over, they are civilised people anyway. I know that the prevailing mood among them is friendly, but we must establish communication with both sides, in this case with the Azerbaijan side, so that the situation in the liberated areas can remain stable and can facilitate conditions for living together for the people of both ethnicities without any individual conflicts. This is definitely the responsibility of the Azerbaijani side in the full sense of this word.
I know the commitments of Azerbaijan’s President. This is exactly how he approaches the organisation of this future work, from exactly this kind of position. But at the first stage you must also establish contacts with both sides so as to have information about the developments, and to exchange this information in a timely manner with both the Armenian side and our Azeri colleagues.
Rustam Muradov: Yes, Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief.
Vladimir Putin: The same goes for historical, cultural and religious heritage sites. I spoke with Mr Aliyev, and he also proceeds from the fact that the Azerbaijani authorities will take everything under control and will ensure access to these religious facilities for both Armenians and, of course, Azerbaijanis. One of them is within your control area, it is one of the oldest Christian monasteries. We have to ensure access for both Armenians and Azeris. There are Christians in Azerbaijan as well, and this is one of the oldest Christian churches. All of that must be taken into account, and a proper schedule of operations must be arranged during contacts with both sides. Thank you.
Mr Lavrov, please tell us about the work with our partners abroad.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov: Mr President, colleagues,
During these days, since November 13, we have been in close contact with the American and French co-chairs, who visited Moscow. I met with them, and my colleagues met with them as well.
We provided them with full information that has confirmed once again that the agreement reached by the leaders of Russia, Azerbaijan and Armenia signed on November 9 is in full consonance with the principles that were agreed upon in the past few years by the co-chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group and received broad support throughout the world.
Mr President, at the current stage we are focusing on the work with international organisations per your instructions. This is primarily the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). Its president, Peter Maurer, visited Moscow and discussed in detail the situation and prospects for our cooperation at the Foreign Ministry, the Defence Ministry, the Emergencies Ministry and our other agencies that are involved in this work in various ways.
The Red Cross is unique because it has representative offices in Yerevan, Baku and Stepanakert. They had to leave Stepanakert during the hostilities but came back several days ago. They are interested in very close contacts with our peacekeepers and the International Humanitarian Response Centre. You have set us these tasks, and we are guided by them in all of our actions.
More work must be done with UN agencies, such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) and UNESCO. These agencies are not always represented in the region, but they are working on it.
It is important to receive from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees authentic statistics on the number of people who need aid. In tentative estimate, these are about 90,000 people who left for Armenia and about 45,000 Azerbaijanis who left the districts adjacent to Nagorno-Karabakh during the hostilities.
Of course, this office is interested in receiving support from all relevant parties so they can start their work, helping those who had to leave their homes to return, and at the same time preventing forced expulsion from homes as it could happen in Shushi. In general, this town has not sustained heavy damage and many people from Azerbaijan are now moving there now. Our peacekeepers are actively facilitating these processes.
Finally, there is a separate issue – the so-called historical refugees from Azerbaijan who left the region during the war of 1992–1994.
The World Food Programme has received an official invitation from Yerevan. At the same time, they established contact with Azerbaijan although the WFP has had no office in Baku since 2013. However, a proposal on food support has already been sent to Baku, among other places.
Today, I spoke with UNESCO Director-General Ms Azoulay. She published a statement today on her intention to send a special UNESCO mission to the conflict zone to assess the situation on site and determine what needs to be done to restore and protect historical landmarks and religious sites, and to provide assistance in education. Of course, this help will be provided to both Armenia and Azerbaijan.
We believe that all UN agencies we both mentioned must be encouraged to be more active in offering help to the sides. They know about their potentials in this respect better than anyone else does. We urged our US and French co-chairs and other members of the OSCE Minsk Group and the UN Security Council to do all they can to encourage these activities by international agencies.
Regretfully, we feel that there is a tendency to try to slow down the implementation of the November 9 Statement by the leaders of Russia, Azerbaijan and Armenia, to prevent that Statement from completely materialising even though everyone has to admit that it is being successfully implemented. We also see attempts to alter the nature of the peacekeeping operation, so far behind the scenes. The attempts are subtle so far but they do exist.
Our task is as follows. Together with the Defence Ministry, Emergencies Ministry and our border guards we are assessing the situation on the ground and respectively correlating the signals we send to international organisations encouraging them to more actively offer their capabilities for an early settlement of humanitarian issues, issues of preserving the cultural heritage in the region.
My report is complete. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Fine.
I did not expect to hear what you said about the tendency to slow down the implementation of the trilateral Statement by the leaders of Russia, Azerbaijan and Armenia.
Those who are trying to do that must realise the only alternative to it can be only another war. God forbid, but if this happens, the blood will be on their hands, on the hands of those who are attempting to undermine these agreements. Everyone must understand and be aware of that.
Moreover, we often hear words of sympathy and readiness to help people, especially and primarily civilians who are in the conflict zone and were affected by it. However, very often the words are not followed by anything else.
I would like to ask you as well to promptly analyse the situation and try to understand what the people in the conflict zone, the victims and those in need of urgent help, can really expect. Meanwhile, I would like to orient our representatives, including those in the humanitarian centre we are establishing, towards actively facilitating, with direct engagement of the Defence Ministry, all forces, all public and international organisations in pursuing this noble cause – rendering assistance to the people who are now in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict zone.
Mr Bortnikov, our border guards also serve in this region. How are things with the work of our border guard service?
Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov: Mr President,
Under the adopted decision, in order to ensure the border security of the Republic of Armenia and the peacekeeping measures in Nagorno-Karabakh, and upon the request of the Armenian side, the Border Guard Directorate of the Federal Security Service allocated an additional reserve unit of 188 service members and with the necessary equipment in the Republic of Armenia. The border guards will deploy additional forces on the border between Armenia and Azerbaijan in the area and at the established posts in Tegh and Sygyr. The Azerbaijani side has been informed about this. The necessary cooperation with our partners has been established.
From November 18 to 20, the Aviation Directorate of the Federal Security Service and the Defence Ministry have been moving the reserve unit to the Republic of Armenia. At present, the coordination of forces is underway. On November 22, the reserve will move towards the area of their responsibility and will begin fulfilling its tasks.
An operative group of the Federal Security Service will be deployed to command and control the reserve unit as well as to interact and coordinate actions with the inter-agency humanitarian response centre and the peacekeeping contingent of the Russian Federation at the point of the 127th border guard unit in the city of Meghri. Contacts in terms of cooperation with special services of Armenia and Azerbaijan as well as border guard services have been established, and information exchange is ongoing. We proceed form the understanding of the position both our partners and we are in.
Mr President, there are no urgent issues arising at the moment.
My report is complete.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
I presume you have established contacts with the Azerbaijani side as well, with our colleagues from Azerbaijan.
Alexander Bortnikov: Exactly. We are in contact, in a 24-hour information exchange regime.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Thank you.
The Ministry of Civil Defence and Emergency Situations has set to work, including on establishing the humanitarian response centre. I know that a group of Emergencies Ministry representatives is already there.
Mr Zinichev, please tell us how you asses everything that has been done and what you think needs to be done in the short term.
Emergencies Minster Yevgeny Zinichev: Mr President,
As per your executive order, the Emergencies Ministry has set up work as part of the inter-agency humanitarian response centre. To assess the situation and prepare the sites for deploying the projected Emergencies Ministry personnel, an operative task force of the ministry has been working in the peacekeeping zone since November 16. At present, the task force has organised interaction with the emergency services of Azerbaijan, Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh.
Members of the task force are rendering methodological and practical assistance in the work of the assessment commission that identifies the nature of the damage and the amount of work to be done.
Preliminary data shows that 284 structures have been totally destroyed in 43 settlements of Nagorno-Karabakh. The types and features of the destroyed buildings are currently being specified. A need for glazing and roofing is noted in view of the nature of the damage to the buildings and facilities.
The first humanitarian convoy departed today to the affected areas. Also, 300 tonnes of construction materials are being loaded from the State Reserve storage facilities in Rostov Region for another convoy of 30 lorries. The convoy is scheduled to leave tomorrow morning, on November 21.
Mr President, at present a significant number of displaced persons is expected to arrive in Nagorno-Karabakh. According to various estimates, the number may reach up to 30,000 people. Meanwhile, the existing infrastructure allows for settling about 5,000 people. Various options are being considered to settle the remaining population, including construction of pre-fabricated housing units.
In addition, in view of the global situation with the coronavirus spread, we are drafting a list of medications and medical equipment to be delivered, as well medical supplies and pharmaceuticals for essential needs.
Mr President, currently the Emergencies Ministry is forming a combined task force for operating within the inter-agency humanitarian response centre. It will comprise rescuers, psychologists and technical personnel. If needed, ordnance technicians will be sent there to defuse unexploded ordnance in residential areas. The Emergencies Ministry is ready to fulfil the set tasks. My report is complete.
Vladimir Putin: Fine.
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak is participating in our work. Mr Novak, I do not ask you for a report now, but I do want to draw your attention to the fact that winter is coming, the terrain there is mountainous and it can get very cold, and cold weather is approaching, so these issues should be addressed in contact with the Armenian side. I want you to consider this and report separately on this issue later.
Everything we have just discussed needs to be funded. In this context, I ask the Finance Ministry to join in, and work out with the agencies all the issues that may emerge in the nearest future. Mr Siluanov, could you please say a few words about this.
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov: Yes, indeed, Mr President, we have been in touch with our Armenian colleagues from the Finance Ministry. They asked us for assistance, primarily in terms of financial provision of social assistance to the people who lost their homes due the previous developments.
We are drafting proposals. They will be reported to you separately. We will be ready for financial cooperation with our partners. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Please report to me separately after you have worked everything out.
I would like to thank the participants of the meeting for the work you have done to this point. I would also like to ask you to continue fulfilling your tasks on maintaining peace in the region, to maintain close contact with both Armenian and Azerbaijani representatives, ensure the active performance of the Interdepartmental Humanitarian Response Centre and use its great potential in full measure.
This intensive work must be aimed at the final result, and providing assistance to real people, those who need this help now, can be the final result.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 20, 2020, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Address to participants in Nuremberg Lessons forum
Vladimir Putin addressed the participants in Nuremberg Lessons international conference and workshop.
November 20, 2020
11:00
Address to participants in Nuremberg Lessons international conference and workshop.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
First of all, I would like to sincerely thank all the participants in the Nuremberg Lessons international forum: politicians and government officials, researchers and experts, legal experts, representatives of the museum community and NGOs. I know that you have come from across Russia, as well as from many other countries.
I am certain that the forum’s theme matters to you not only from a professional standpoint, but also in terms of the sense of personal responsibility for preserving the historical truth about World War II. You understand the significance of the Nuremberg verdicts, and the norms and principles these trials helped devise for responding to today’s challenges and threats.
The trials opened 75 years ago, six months after the crushing defeat of the Nazis, and the whole world was watching. The merciless Nazi regime that unleashed the criminal war and committed atrocities of an unprecedented scale may have been defeated, but it was too early to put this matter to rest. The military triumph had to be complemented by a political, legal and moral condemnation of Nazism and its deadly ideology.
Specific people, high-ranking Nazi officials, stood behind the mass terror, bloody killings, enslavement and purposeful extermination of entire peoples. The states that suffered the aggression and the millions of people who had to endure inhuman challenges, pain and suffering, had every right to retribution and the inevitable public punishment of the criminals.
Since 1942, the Soviet Union has been consistently promoting its principled position regarding the establishment of an open International Military tribunal during all the talks it had with the Allies, who, as we know, originally favoured an extrajudicial collective political decision to execute Nazi leaders.
By the end of the war, many leading politicians recognised the need to hold a trial, and in August 1945 the Soviet Union, the United States, Great Britain and France signed an agreement to establish the tribunal. Another 19 countries supported this initiative, giving the tribunal the status of a Peoples’ Court.
Having endured the harshest and most atrocious blows by the aggressor, and having sacrificed so much on the path to Victory, the Soviet people had their own scores to settle with the Nazis, for those who fell on the battlefield, for those who were wounded and mutilated, for the cities that lay in ruins and villages burnt to the ground, and for the mass killings on occupied territory.
These atrocities against Soviet civilians were dictated by special Nazi directives, and were elevated to the rank of state policy by the Nazis. During World War II, the Soviet Union suffered immense, irreparable losses, and among the millions of casualties, the majority were either servicemen who died as prisoners of war or civilians who were fiercely, mercilessly exterminated.
Russia is now proactive in opening up its archives. Alongside search expeditions, this helps uncover and conceptualise the terrible events that took place during this war that remained unknown to this day, as well as uncover facts about mass killings by the Nazis and their henchmen of Soviet civilians, including the elderly, women and children.
Such crimes have no statute of limitations. The Nuremberg Tribunal pronounced its assessment of those acts, and developed the criteria of a crime against humanity, which defined the very concept of genocide and laid the foundation for the 1948 UN Genocide Convention.
The Nuremberg decisions are still relevant today. A month ago, based on those decisions, the Soletsk [district] court in Russia recognised the brutal execution of thousands of peaceful, innocent people near the village of Zhestyanaya Gorka in Novgorod Region as genocide. That was the first such precedent in Russian legal practice.
We constantly refer to the lessons of the Nuremberg Trials; we understand their importance for defending the truths of historical memory, for making a well-founded and solid case against deliberate distortions and falsifications of World War II events, especially the shameless and deceitful attempts to rehabilitate and even glorify Nazi criminals and their accessories.
I will say even more. It is the duty of the entire international community to safeguard the Nuremberg Trials’ decisions, because they concern the principles that underlie the values of the post-war world order and the norms of international law. Even today, they remain a solid and reliable basis for constructive dialogue and cooperation, while forgetting them, or trying to undermine them is a blow to global security. That is why Russia is persistently raising these questions at all negotiating platforms.
I hope that this forum will contribute to a substantive and insightful modern interpretation of the historical legacy of the Nuremberg Trials and that your conclusions and recommendations will be valuable and enjoy interest from the world community.
I wish you fruitful work and all the best.
Thank you.
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 20, 2020, 11:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia
The discussion focused, in part, on activities of the Russian Orthodox Church during the pandemic.
November 20, 2020
13:05
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 4
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia.
During the meeting, the President congratulated Patriarch Kirill on his birthday.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Holiness, we agreed long ago to meet to discuss current matters.
We should probably begin with the situation in which all of us, including religious organisations, the Russian Orthodox Church, have been working. How would you assess the situation?
Patriarch Kirill
: The Church has joined in the general efforts very actively. We have a group of clerics who are working in clinics. They have the necessary training. I would like to say that they have been doing their duty selflessly.
Those who have been placed in isolation because of the disease have an enormous desire for communication. But believers also want to confess or to pray together with a priest.
Initially, of course, some of our medical colleagues had misgivings about our devotion. But now we have developed an algorithm according to which our priests can provide pastoral support at the request of believers directly in the places where the coronavirus patients are staying. I would like to say that this is having a very positive effect on people’s hearts. When people lie in isolation wards and even their families cannot visit them, a priest can find the right words to help them.
In addition, I would like to say a few words about our work in hospitals and, in general, about our social work with the parishes. In the past, our work was limited to worship, as the law prohibited the church from doing anything else. But we have very many opportunities in new Russia, so we implement important social programmes in the parishes. We now have a corps of volunteers, young people who give their time and effort to participation in the socially important programmes that are being implemented by the church.
Speaking of this pandemic, it has not spared our clergy. There are victims, unfortunately. But that mostly happened because they were doing their duty. A priest cannot avoid doing his duty, even if he has to risk his life. This is what their ministry is about. I cannot cite the exact numbers now, but indeed, some people have left us because this virus has affected their bodies in ways incompatible with life.
On the other hand, we have also gained new experience. Unlike the usual visits to a hospital, we now had to wear those “spacesuits” and comply with all the medical requirements and continue to carry out our ministry in these conditions.
The priests hear confessions, give communion, talk to people, and we encourage this in every possible way, because indeed, being in isolation with a drastic diagnosis without a chance to meet with their family, talking to a priest is sometimes the only opportunity they have. Therefore, by the grace of God, we do what we are obliged to do.
This is in fact something church should have always been doing. Yet, for many years, we lived in a situation where we could not even think about carrying out any kind of social work; it was prohibited, just like working with young people. Therefore, of course, the new position of the Russian Orthodox Church in modern Russia provides this opportunity – to reveal the spiritual potential of those who, through participation in church activities, aspire to make the world better.
As a Patriarch, I am grateful to you, personally, and to the government of Russia, and simply to modern Russia for this change. Things have really become quite different now, and the church can now vigorously perform its calling, called by the Lord himself.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
For my part, I would like to thank you, and all the clergymen of the Russian Orthodox Church and other traditional religions present in Russia for the ministry that you perform in these very difficult conditions.
Indeed, we talk a lot about doctors, about their heroism, and that is fully justified, but in this sense, all those who do something to help people, they certainly deserve special words of gratitude for the work that they do.
So thank you very much.
Patriarch Kirill: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I see that you have a question.
Patriarch Kirill: Yes, I have a practical question I would like to discuss with you.
Vladimir Putin: Go on, please.
Patriarch Kirill: Next year, in 2021, we will celebrate the 800th birth anniversary of Alexander Nevsky. It is a special date in the history of our nation because Alexander Nevsky played a special role in saving Russia in a period when its future was decided.
Russia was attacked both from the East and from the West. Alexander Nevsky wisely saw through the motives of those who invaded Russia. Those who came from the East were after our stomach and purse, whereas those who came from the West were interested in our minds and hearts. While fighting the Western invasion of the Teutonic Knights, Alexander Nevsky demonstrated great diplomatic resourcefulness in developing ties with the Eastern conquerors and in fact defended Russia from dangerous Eastern invasions. The St Alexander Nevsky Monastery was built in St Petersburg in his honour. It is logical that the celebration of his anniversary will also take place there. 
In this connection, I have several requests. I would like to ask you to look at the state of the monastery, which has not been repaired for a long time. And the situation is also difficult at the St Petersburg Theological Academy, which is a special place for me because I was its rector for 10 years.
I would like to share a few ideas with you, primarily when it comes to the development of the St Petersburg Theological Academy as a major intellectual centre of the Russian Orthodox Church. I hope to receive your support for the further development of this educational and spiritual centre of the church.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Your Holiness, we will now look at the matter carefully and discuss all the details.
But before we start working, I would like to say that we are meeting on your birthday. I would like to wholeheartedly congratulate you on your birthday, wish you health and success in your service to the benefit of Russia, as well as to thank you for what you are doing for the country.
Patriarch Kirill: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Religion
Persons
Kirill Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 20, 2020, 13:05
Text versionEvents
APEC Summit
Vladimir Putin took part in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Economic Leaders’ Meeting.
November 20, 2020
17:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Economic Leaders’ Meeting (via videoconference).
The meeting, held via videoconference under the chairmanship of Prime Minister of Malaysia Muhyiddin Yassin, focused on ways of overcoming the social and economic aftermath of the novel coronavirus pandemic. The leaders also discussed prospects for cooperation within APEC, including free trade and greater investment.
Following the meeting, 2020 Kuala Lumpur Declaration and APEC Putrajaya Vision 2040 were adopted.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chairman, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to join the positive assessments of the work done by Malaysia this year as the APEC chairman. Thank you, Mr Chairman.
See also
2020 Kuala Lumpur Declaration
November 20, 2020
APEC Putrajaya Vision 2040
November 20, 2020
Importantly, despite the obvious difficulties caused by the spread of the coronavirus, APEC cooperation has been making steady headway. The intensive and substantive agenda that we are discussing at today’s summit attests to that.
It goes without saying that our priority is to pool efforts in countering the coronavirus, as the Chairman has just said. Russia has much to offer our partners and friends. We have amassed solid scientific and, already, clinical experience in this area. I would like to recall that Russia has developed and registered two vaccines: Sputnik V andEpiVacCorona. One more vaccine, a third one, is undergoing final tests now. Together with our foreign partners, we are actively studying opportunities for their supply and production localisation.
I would like to emphasise that both vaccines meet the two most important criteria: they are absolutely safe and effective. All that is left is to develop their full-scale production. We are launching it in Russia.
We can see that the pandemic has resulted in serious problems in most Asian-Pacific countries. The number of those infected in the region exceeds 26 million, while according to the WHO, the total worldwide is 56 million. The coronavirus and its complications have been taking even more lives.
Alarming trends can be seen in the economy and the social sphere. As the IMF head has already said, due to the industrial production decline and financial difficulties, tens of millions are at risk of falling below the poverty line.
According to forecasts, the global GDP will drop by 4.4 percent in 2020, and the total APEC GDP will decrease by about 2.5 percent. Russia will also see a downturn of 3.9 percent according to our estimations. During the last six months, the international trade figures fell by over 15 percent. Economic disputes between leading players in the market are escalating.
The abovementioned negative trends make it possible to objectively assess the real situation and, of course, compel the international community join ranks and take steps together in order to set the situation right.
Russia is ready to cooperate with all the interested countries, including, of course, its APEC partners, as closely as possible. In particular, back in spring we suggested creating “green corridors” free from sanctions and restrictions, above all concerning foodstuffs and medicines. And, of course, first of all with the countries that need them most. We believe the implementation of this initiative would help to ease the humanitarian tensions in the world and develop global trade, which almost all the speakers here addressed.
We think cooperation between Asian-Pacific countries in the digital sphere is becoming more important, as has already been mentioned today. I mean broad ICT introduction for the continuous operation of state governance and city economic systems, for providing remote medical educational and social services and for ensuring small and medium-sized businesses have access to these services, markets and capital.
We believe it is worth thinking about coordinating APEC efforts on protecting personal information and preventing IT offences. This is extremely important because of the growth of the digital economy. In expert estimates, by 2021 the world may lose about six trillion dollars due to cybercrime.
I agree with what many leaders said in their speeches, notably, that one of the main tasks of APEC activities is to create in the Asia-Pacific Region an open and sustainable community for ensuring the welfare of people in all of our countries. Therefore, we certainly support the coordinated draft declaration of our summit on long-term APEC development goals until 2040.
That said, we believe that to reach the ambitious future goals it is important to continue cooperating on the basis of the fundamental principles of the UN Charter, which are sovereign equality of states, non-interference in internal affairs, and respect for the right of nations to their own development model.
It is necessary to involve in cooperation not only the economies of the region but also its integration associations. Today life itself is prompting the need to unite their potentials for overcoming a broad range of challenges and implementing large-scale cross-border projects. This is exactly the goal of the Russian initiative on creating a Greater Eurasian Partnership in security and economic and humanitarian cooperation.
Let me emphasise that Russia is willing to work jointly with all APEC countries. We will actively assist New Zealand, which assumes the APEC chairmanship next year. We wish success to our partners in New Zealand.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
APEC
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 20, 2020, 17:50
Text version