Events
Meeting on economic issues
Vladimir Putin held a meeting on economic issues via videoconference.
April 30, 2020
17:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 2
At a meeting on economic issues.
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Alexei Gromov
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
, Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office, Presidential Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov
, Presidential Aides Dmitry Kalimulin
and Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Labour and Social Protection Anton Kotyakov, Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
and Head of the Federal Tax Service Daniil Yegorov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
Welcome to all. Let us get down to work.
This week, during a meeting with heads of regions, I instructed the Government to develop a national action plan to normalise business life and restore the economy, employment and people’s incomes.
Let me stress, we must not just stablise the situation. We know the world is changing. The crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic is affecting key markets and the system of cooperation ties.
Companies, including Russian companies, are searching for and quickly adopting completely new business models based on digital and other advanced solutions. The importance of scientific and technological development is growing dramatically; and many countries that have such potential are developing it.
Let me repeat that, when planning a long-term strategy, we must consider all these factors and this new reality.
In addition, I have asked the Government to draft another package of urgent support measures for people and the economy. I am referring to decisions that must come into force very soon.
Colleagues, you know that the situation that people and companies daily face is complicated and requires new steps, actions and prompt response.
Relevant specific proposals are being drafted. I know that the Government, the Presidential Executive Office and all of us will work on this. Today let us discuss these in more detail.
But before we get started, I would like to say, or to be more precise, repeat the following.
It is important to not simply adopt the decisions that are being proposed. They must be implemented with tangible results for the people, business and the economy. This is the basis, the essence of all our work.
In this context, I would like to ask you to prepare and present detailed reports on the implementation of the extraordinary measures that we adopted in March and April, including the following specific decisions. I will remind you of them.
First, the organization of additional federal compensation to doctors, paramedics, nurses, junior medical personnel, and ambulance crews that are directly working with coronavirus patients. These decisions have been adopted. The main point now is when exactly they will receive the money.
Second, what about the special insurance for the specialists that are now helping these patients, risking their lives and health? We agreed on introducing a system similar to the insurance system for Armed Forces personnel. Has the necessary documentation been prepared?
Third, what about the additional monthly payments of 5,000 rubles for a child up to 3 years old to families that are entitled to maternity capital? Let me remind you that these payments are due for April, May and June.
Fourth, those who lost their jobs after March 1 will receive the highest unemployment benefit of 12,130 rubles, in April, May and June. Families with children where the parents are currently unemployed will be issued an additional payment of 3,000 rubles per underage child a month. I would like you to report on the implementation of these measures and whether this aid is perceptible for the people.
Fifth, it has been decided that low-income families will receive payments per each child aged between three and seven not from July 1 as planned, but from June 1. Moreover, the income of a given family will be calculated based on the current situation. I expect you to provide detailed information on whether these payments can be made strictly on time.
Sixth, starting on May 18, small and medium-sized companies in the affected industries that have preserved their personnel must receive financial assistance to pay April and May salaries to their staff. The payments will amount to one minimum wage per employee. Please report on the streamlining of this support mechanism and whether it is clear and convenient for the businesses.
I expect you to report on these and other matters by May 6. I would like to remind everyone that by May 5 the Government and Rospotrebnadzor, working together with the working group of the State Council, are to submit their recommendations on the gradual easing of the self-isolation rules after the May holidays.
Together, these reports and recommendations will be used to assess the effectiveness of the measures taken and to determine the further steps to be carried out by the federal and regional authorities.
Now let us get back to discussing the decisions we are to implement in the near future. Let us hear our colleagues from the Government.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 30, 2020, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Conversation with Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
Vladimir Putin had a conversation, via videoconference, with Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin.
April 30, 2020
19:45
Vladimir Putin had a conversation, via videoconference, with Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, Mr Mishustin.
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
: Good evening.
Mr President, I have just found out that I tested positive for the coronavirus. As such, according to the requirements of Rospotrebnadzor, I must self-isolate and follow doctors’ orders. I must do this to protect my colleagues.
The Government will continue to operate as normal. I plan to keep up regularly with my colleagues by telephone, and by videoconference with you, Mr President, on all major issues. I suggest appointing Andrei Belousov
as Acting Prime Minister.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Mishustin, what is happening to you now could happen to anyone. I say this all the time.
You are a very industrious person and I would like to thank you for all you have done up to now. Obviously, Government members and colleagues from the Presidential Executive Office are at high risk because despite all the restrictions on interpersonal contact, it is impossible to adopt decisions without working directly with others, with one’s colleagues. Of course, this comes as no surprise.
But I would like to say that I hope you will be in good enough shape to work and remain actively involved in formulating the decisions that we discussed at today’s meeting on extending support to people, the economy in general and its individual industries, especially those that have been hit hardest recently by the coronavirus pandemic. You will not just take part in formulating these decisions. I want to tell you that the final decisions will not be adopted without your participation.
I would like to wish you the speediest recovery possible. Get well soon.
Mikhail Mishustin: Thank you, Mr President.
In the current circumstances, I would like to once again ask all citizens of our country to take the coronavirus and its spread as seriously as possible.
The May holidays are ahead, and I ask all of you to stay at home and observe all necessary restrictions. I am sure that together we will be able to defeat this virus and return to normal life. The Government is taking and will take all necessary steps for this.
I ask you all to remember that today, the date when the country can return to normal life depends on the discipline and willpower of each of us.
Take care of yourselves and your loved ones.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Mishustin, your proposal regarding the nomination of Mr Belousov for the position of Acting Prime Minister of the Russian Federation is accepted. Today I will sign the corresponding Executive Order.
Get well as soon as possible.
Mikhail Mishustin: Thank you for your support and kind words.
Vladimir Putin: When you arrive at the hospital, please call me. I will be awaiting your call. Talk to you later.
Mikhail Mishustin: All right. Take care.
Vladimir Putin: Take care.
<…>
See also
Executive Order on performing Prime Minister’s duties
April 30, 2020
Persons
Belousov Andrei
Mishustin Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 30, 2020, 19:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with participants in nationwide campaign We Are Together
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, with participants in the nationwide campaign We Are Together for supporting socially oriented organisations.
April 30, 2020
15:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
At a meeting with participants in nationwide campaign We Are Together.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Can all of you see and hear me?
I am very glad to see all of you. Regrettably, we cannot invite everyone to our meeting, all those who are involved in charity and volunteering.
You know, I simply wanted to meet with at least those who could be here and, welcome and thank everyone, represented by you, as they say in such cases, all those who listened to their heart and responded to the problems facing people.
I would like to start our meeting with words of sincere gratitude to everyone who is now helping people. I am referring to volunteers, employees of non-profit organisations, entrepreneurs, cultural figures, athletes and journalists, in general, all those who did not stay on the sidelines in these difficult days, who showed generosity and sometimes even civic heroism, without any exaggeration.
Russia has always had a reputation for its generous and bold people. An exploit and selfless devotion to a cause are synonymous here.
We have always, in all historical eras, dealt with adversity all together, by pooling our efforts. This is a tradition of our people. It is in their bones, their genetic and cultural codes.
Now we are again together. You are proving this by your selfless work, your readiness to respond to pain and take care of those who need help, to respond to the problems of other people, to be where people are waiting for you and need your help.
Volunteers and socially oriented NGOs have united and backed the state and society. They are working in medical and social facilities, helping the elderly and people with disabilities to purchase medications and food. Let me repeat that you are where help is needed. This is the main thing.
I would like to ask participants in our meeting to tell us about their work. I am convinced that you have much to be proud of, and your example is bound to inspire others. And, of course, I would like to hear about the problems you are facing, what help and support your need yourselves.
I would be glad to hear what you think about the current situation and how all of us should move forward in your opinion in order to overcome the difficulties we are facing.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: In conclusion, friends and colleagues, I would like to say a few words.
I have just spoken about this, and I would like to repeat it. Here we have many people in different Russian regions, in populated areas, large cities and villages. But, of course, these are not all who work as volunteer in the broadest sense of this word.
We do not know their first or last names. Nobody knows them. But they do this from their hearts. This is what is most valuable. I would like to emphasise that this is in our blood, in the genetic code of our people. During this trying time, everyone is showing who they really are and what they can do.
I will be honest: countering the coronavirus has become a real test of humanity, compassion and mutual help for us all.
We have proven that we are together. We are a united country. We share common values that our ancestors passed on to us. People, their lives, health and future prevail. Your selfless work is the main proof of this. It commands pride and endless respect. I am saying this without exaggeration.
Volunteers and employees of NGOs are doing a very good job as a powerful, creative and life-affirming force. You have taken on a colossal scope of tasks.
I would like to tell the heads of regions and municipalities that volunteers and NGOs are our most reliable, like-minded partners. They must receive all the necessary assistance. And not just now, in these extraordinary conditions, but always, in any situation, because solving today’s and even long-term problems Russia is facing largely depends on volunteers and people who work at NGOs, on their energy and civic initiatives. We always need your labour, energy and kindness, friends, always. Thank you very much once again.
As we agreed, we will do everything necessary to preserve your staff and help those who work in difficult conditions. And, of course, we will create stable long-term conditions for your activities, for your expanding involvement in the country’s life.
Now let us focus on the specific decisions following today’s meeting based on the proposals made.
First, I think it is necessary to grant socially oriented NGOs additional support similar to that already adopted for small and medium-size companies hit by the consequences of the coronavirus. I already said this today but would like to emphasise it at the end of our meeting.
These measures include a six-month suspension of payments of taxes and social fund insurance premiums and deferred lease payments for state and municipal property in line with the earlier adopted decision. I will emphasise once again, six months later the accumulated debt payments may be made gradually, in installments, not in a lump sum.
I am instructing the Government to determine clear-cut, understandable criteria for supporting NGOs.
Second, the Government will provide direct assistance to small and medium-size companies hit by the epidemic. This is designed to maintain salaries for April and May in the amount of one minimum monthly wage of 12,130 rubles per employee. Let me recall that payments for April will come on May 18 and for May on June 18. Of course, it would be better to do this sooner but such are the administrative procedures.
It is necessary to establish such a mechanism for socially oriented NGOs as well. However, considering the peculiarities of their work, it would not be good to just copy the existing pattern. I am instructing the Government to suggest a simple, understandable and most importantly, convenient mechanism for the direct financial support for NGOs to pay salaries. An easy loan programme for NGOs for partial payment of salaries should follow the same logic.
I would like to emphasise that all support measures must primarily be granted to NGOs that have already shown their value as reliable partners to the state and to society. I am referring to winners of competitions held by the Presidential Grants Foundation, the relevant funds of ministries and agencies, as well as by regions and municipalities.
Third. To the regional governors: you need to maintain the scope of social service purchases from NGOs. All financial commitments under contracts with NGOs that provide social services must be met on a monthly basis. There can be no delay in this respect.
Fourth. Today I have already said that many private companies and companies with state participation are providing significant charitable aid in the fight against the coronavirus. I hope that more and more representatives of the business community will be actively involved in such initiatives. And of course, we should support entrepreneurs who consider charity to be a matter of their heart and soul. And they do it when they are also going through difficult times. This was also said today.
Which is why the following decision has already been made. When calculating income tax, the expenses of companies related to the purchase of products and goods that are donated to those in need may be deducted. I ask the Government to expedite as much as possible the submission of the corresponding draft law to the State Duma, and I ask the deputies for their support, as well as to propose other additional benefits for organisations that help the volunteer movement and socially oriented non-profits.
Fifth. It is necessary to provide targeted support to socially oriented and charitable organisations that are actively involved in the fight against the coronavirus.
I believe that this can be done through the Presidential Grants Foundation. I propose to allocate an additional 3 billion rubles from the Presidential Reserve Fund to implement the special programme, including mandatory funds for the purchase of personal protective equipment for employees and volunteers of non-profits.
Sixth. We should support volunteers who work in high-risk environments. I instruct the Government, together with the Association of Volunteer Centres, together with businesses, to work out proposals for additional support for volunteers in the current difficult conditions.
And finally, seventh, which is very important. For the duration of the fight against the epidemic, I consider it necessary to provide additional material incentives for employees of social institutions (something that our colleagues have just spoken about here) that are home to people with disabilities, elderly people, and other citizens who need special care. I ask the Government to determine as quickly as possible the procedure for such payments and their parameters, taking into account the special working conditions and additional workload on these people, including working directly with people who have the coronavirus.
I also propose to begin making payments to employees of socially oriented non-profit organisations, who during the epidemic take temporary guardianship of elderly and disabled people from social institutions. Our colleagues spoke about this today as well. I propose to offer such incentive pay for two months in the amount of the minimal wage or higher, and to take into account the number of citizens taken under temporary guardianship.
My dear friends, always, under any circumstances, in all situations, we must remain human, help each other, and show solidarity. This is the only way we can bear any burden, overcome any challenge and do the work before us. We will certainly do so, because we are together.
I wish you success. Take care of yourself.
Thank you.
Topics
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 30, 2020, 15:50
Text version