Events
Congratulations to Russia’s women on Women’s Day
Vladimir Putin congratulated Russia’s women on International Women’s Day.
March 8, 2021
09:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Vladimir Putin: Dear women of Russia,
My best greetings to you on International Women’s Day, a holiday filled with joy, warmth and goodness.
Today, sincere words of tender, heartfelt gratitude are heard in every home. We are saying them to our mothers, grandmothers, wives, sisters, daughters, girlfriends, and colleagues at work. These long-standing traditions of celebrating March 8 put everyone in a special mood. They symbolise the advent of spring and assert the role of women in our life, in preserving the genuine values that have always been and, I am sure, will remain an inspiring moral guideline.
You are bringing into this world harmony, tenderness, beauty and the strongest, purest and selfless feeling – unconditional motherly love. You devote yourselves without reservation to your children, their development and upbringing. You are worried and concerned about them, proud of them, rejoice at their achievements and you do everything you can to help them to become successful, worthy people.
Caring for children and the warmth of home comfort which you are always striving to create for your family require difficult everyday work. Naturally, it deserves the highest recognition.
And you always manage to cope with everything in some mysterious way. You reach summits in the most diverse areas of human endeavour. You evoke invariable respect for your commitment, reliability and responsible approach to the matter. Today offers an opportunity to thank you for these qualities that are vital for any profession.
I would like to extend special greetings to female medical workers. In the hardest conditions of the pandemic you are displaying goodness and professionalism and you continue doing all you can.
I would like to thank all women – doctors, paramedics, medical nurses, all those who are saving the lives of and nursing the patients back to health in red zones, as part of emergency teams, in hospitals and outpatient clinics.
We have known for a long time that sympathy, care, and an attentive and kind attitude are sometimes as important as medication. You are giving exactly this kind of assistance to your patients – a true womanly, heartfelt support.
Dear women,
March 8 is the day of triumph of love, admiration and gratitude. We are overwhelmed and united by these wonderful emotions.
I would like to convey once again my heartfelt greetings to you on this holiday! I wish you good health and success – success in everything, and mutual understanding with those who are dear to you. And, of course, I would like you to have as many reasons for smiles and joy as possible.
Be happy!
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 8, 2021, 09:00
Text version