Events
Opening of Repin junction
The Russian leader took part in a ceremony marking the opening of a transport interchange at the intersection of the M10 Rossiya motorway and Repin Street in Khimki.
January 26, 2021
15:20
Khimki, Moscow Region
6 of 12
With the builders of the M10 Rossiya Motorway-Repin Street interchange in Khimki.
Vladimir Putin spoke briefly with participants in the construction of the new junction and was updated on the development of the road infrastructure in Khimki and in Moscow Region.
The flyover was built at the Russian leader’s instruction following his visit to Energomash Science and Production Association in Khimki near Moscow on April 12, 2019. The engineering structure was completed under the national project Safe and High-Quality Motorways.
The interchange is to link the city’s “old” and “new” districts and make its industrial sector more accessible.
The transport interchange has an area of about 40,000 square metres and its carriageway is 0.8 km long, including a 158-metre flyover. The carriageway has two to five lanes, and allows a maximum vehicle speed of 70 kph.
* * * 
Excerpts from the conversation with the builders of the Repin Transport interchange:
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I would like to thank you for your great work on this project. It is very important for the city and the employees of Energomash, one of the industry’s largest companies. I would like to thank you on behalf of all Khimki residents because it will really improve their lives. You can see this yourselves. It was hard to get to your destination, even for Energomash workers. The journey took a lot of time.
As you know – or maybe you do not, but I will put it straight – Khimki was divided by the Leningradka Road. Some 100,000 people lived on one side of the city and 60,000 on the other. Of course, it was very difficult to travel from one part to the other. There was only one crossing. Now the situation has been improved thanks to your efforts.
In general, during the past year the road builders have fulfilled almost all of their plans for 2020, and I would like to thank all of them through you, as they say in such cases. I believe we put into service 915 km of new roads and repaired 7,775 km of old ones. I am referring to federal motorways. As for regional roads, the figures are double in both cases. While listening to the recommendations of the doctors and epidemiologists, we did not suspend road construction. Firstly, we fulfilled all our plans, and, secondly, preserved jobs and salaries and built roads.
I must say there will be a lot of work soon because we have big plans for road construction and tying the country together. The required funds have been earmarked; everything is reserved and will be allocated as scheduled.
By 2024, we plan to put 85 percent of roads into normal shape in 105 major cities, and by 2030, the roads in another 51 agglomerations must be raised to the same level, In other words, 85 percent of all national roads must be upgraded. This is a lot of work and it covers the entire country. The geography is enormous – from the Far East to Kaliningrad and Crimea.
Therefore, I would like to thank you very much and wish you success.
Yana Lopukhova, Energomash employee: Mr President, Energomash directors asked me to thank you, the Moscow Region executives and the construction workers for building this interchange. Thank you very much. This is a great event for all of us.
Vladimir Putin: For my part, I would like to wish you success in production and primarily in your personal lives.
Energomash is a leading company in the industry and we all expect impressive results from you. Thank you very much.
Geography
Moscow Region
Topics
Regions
Road safety
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 26, 2021, 15:20
Text version