Events
Meeting with Security Council permanent members
Vladimir Putin met with the permanent members of the Security Council via videoconference. 
May 21, 2021
16:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Meeting with Security Council permanent members (via videoconference).
The participants discussed urgent issues of foreign and domestic policy.
The President congratulated the sailors of the Pacific Fleet on its 290th anniversary.
Vladimir Putin also congratulated Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
on his birthday.
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
, and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Before we start our meeting, our work, I would like to congratulate Mr Shoigu on a double holiday: his birthday and the birthday of the Pacific Fleet. True, it seems like the Pacific Fleet is a bit older, I think 290 years old, but accept my greetings as Defence Minister.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu: Thank you, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to wish you all the best. I also wish the sailors of the Pacific Fleet fair winds and following seas, and successful service for the benefit of the Fatherland.
The Pacific sailors are always in the front ranks; they master the latest equipment, and I am sure they will perform the tasks set them by Russia in a befitting manner.
And to you, as the Defence Minister, I would like to wish not only health but also success in your career. I wish you all the best.
<…>
See also
News of the Security Council
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: May 21, 2021, 16:20
Text version