In addition, I support the proposal to renew the moratorium on scheduled inspections of small businesses for next year – a colleague of ours mentioned this the day before yesterday – but, of course, this should apply not only to small and medium-sized farming businesses, but all sectors of the economy as well. In general, I want our colleagues at all levels of government to approach entrepreneurship support as a critical nationwide task.
Speaking about agriculture, the domestic agricultural industry is making steady progress. Importantly, people who work in the farming business and feed the country are entitled to a better quality of life. We need to do everything possible to comprehensively develop rural communities, to build modern infrastructure, roads, social facilities and comfortable housing, as well as to implement gas supply programmes. To reiterate, bringing gas pipelines to the fence, to the property line, should be free for the owners.
I also support the idea that came up at a meeting with the party leaders to make good use of the Russian Post branches, which can be found in almost every rural community. Funds should be set aside to upgrade them, so that they could be used as pickup locations for the delivery of medicines and food, issue certificates and statements from the Unified Portal of Public Services, send the necessary documents to the integrated government service centres, and provide other services that people may need.
Affordable housing is the most important issue for all people in the country. I will say a few words on this issue as well. Modern and comfortable housing is the most important condition for the normal social well-being of citizens. Let me remind you that now the regions are relocating residents from dilapidated housing that was identified as such at the beginning of 2017. Last year, we added 50 billion rubles to this programme, and today, the work is proceeding ahead of schedule. By the end of this year, nine regions of the country will have completed it ahead of schedule.
In this regard, I think that it is necessary to move forward: not only to support those regions that are actively relocating people from dilapidated houses, but also to launch a new programme – I fully agree with the proposal to this effect by United Russia – a programme to relocate residents from dilapidated housing that will be recognised as such as of January 1, 2021. Colleagues, this is over 11 million square metres across the country. And as a first step, I propose allocating 45 billion rubles from the federal budget to this end. This is a very specific issue addressed specifically to you, colleagues, because it is you who will have to make the appropriate decision. I ask United Russia to support this proposal in the 2022 budget and for the planning period of 2023–2024.
In new housing development projects, it is also necessary to provide, of course, all the necessary social infrastructure and to address local improvements and the development of public transport. All this must be done together with the public, responding to their requests by using such a mechanism of civic participation as the ”people's budget,“ when the people themselves determine what needs to be done, what is to be renovated and built in their city. I know that this way of interacting with people is working very well, and I ask the Government to remove unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles in this matter. It is easy to do, no problem, and the quality of work will certainly go up.
Colleagues,
We are proud of our doctors, our medical community. We have said this many times in different formats. We are rightfully proud of doctors, paramedics and nurses who work hard, selflessly, without any exaggeration, not sparing themselves in large medical centres, in small towns, and in rural urgent care centres. They provide routine medical care, save people, and fight for their health, including on the front lines in the so-called red zones.
We will be able to overcome the dangerous pandemic only if we join our efforts. In fact, vaccination is the main weapon against the spread of the virus. There is nothing else I can say about this. Importantly, no one should be forced to get a jab. Pressure, where people may lose their jobs, is even less acceptable. People must be convinced of the need to get the vaccine. This must be done persistently and respectfully. Respectfully, mind you. People should be convinced of the need to get vaccinated in order to save their lives and health, and to protect their loved ones. They should be convinced that the vaccine really works and mitigates the risk of complications.
The unprecedented challenge of the pandemic has revealed the strengths and weaknesses of domestic healthcare.
As you may be aware, a decision was made to launch a special programme for putting in place a medical rehabilitation system. It must be modern and accessible, and effectively help people deal with the aftereffects of diseases and injuries. I want United Russia to be instrumental in implementing this programme. As a reminder, we have set aside 100 billion rubles for this purpose, of which 60 billion will be made available within the next three years. The parliament, the Duma of the next convocation, will need to deal with this as well, and I hope that the newly elected United Russia representatives in the Duma will support it in the most energetic manner.
It is crucial to continue to modernise the primary care system on the basis of innovative technology and to ensure higher quality healthcare in all regions of the country, when the focus is on the patients and their health. The level of satisfaction of the people with the quality of medical assistance will serve as the main measure of effectiveness of the regional programmes for upgrading the public health system.
Special attention should go to organising medical care in our many remote and hard-to-reach areas. In this regard, a programme has been developed, which envisages renewing the aircraft fleet, including short-range air ambulances, with domestic aircraft and helicopters.Events
Meeting with General Director of DOM.RF Vitaly Mutko
The President had a meeting with General Director of JSC DOM.RF Vitaly Mutko.
August 24, 2021
20:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
With General Director of JSC DOM.RF Vitaly Mutko.
The President started the meeting by saying that DOM.RF is a key element for achieving national development goals in such important area as the housing industry. There are many unresolved issues, but the fact is, for the first time in the entire history of tsarist, Soviet and modern-day Russia, the state can handle this task, at least in general.
Vitaly Mutko
reported on the company’s financial results: in 2020, the company had almost 1.5 trillion rubles in assets. Since the company’s establishment in 2015, the revenue has increased almost eight times. Last year, the company made 26 billion rubles and the state received 14 billion in dividends. In total, the state has received 127 billion rubles in dividends over the years. The capital investment has been fully paid back. The company has invested around 2.5 trillion rubles in housing construction, including project financing, obligations and other mechanisms.
But the main task is to support Russian citizens and to maintain the demand for housing, primarily by supporting mortgages – subsidised mortgage, family mortgage, mortgage for buyers of housing in the Russian Far East. At least one million families have improved their living conditions thanks to these programmes alone. This being said, at least 40 percent of Russian citizens will not be able to take out a mortgage even at the lowest interest rate, according to Vitaly Mutko. These citizens can be helped by developing the support of housing rent. Some measures have already been taken, including a new programme focused on subsidising housing leases under private-public partnerships. In cooperation with the Government, regulations have been drafted on amending the law on private-public partnership.
Vitaly Mutko also reported on including dormant plots of land in housing projects, on issuing infrastructure bonds and providing infrastructure loans to real estate developers. He spoke about potential obstacles and how to deal with them. The General Director asked the President to support these proposals. Vladimir Putin promised to issue respective instructions to the Government and the Finance Ministry.
Vladimir Putin and Vitaly Mutko also discussed project financing and escrow accounts. The President stressed that the state must ensure that the funds invested in housing by private individuals are safe.
Vitaly Mutko also reported on the steps being taken by the Government to get rid of administrative barriers, to promote digitalisation of the industry, implement BIM technology, develop information systems for housing construction that show every building and can be used to monitor the entire process right through to completion. He said he hoped that the system would help speed up construction.
Construction of private houses was also discussed. Vitaly Mutko reported that, according to public opinion polls, 70 percent of families, or 40 million families, would like to live in a house. Currently, 18 million families have their own house. As of the end of the first six months of this year, the number of houses completed was for the first time higher than the number of completed blocks of flats. The President reminded the General Director that a series of decisions supporting this type of housing has already been made.
When asked about the amount of housing to be finished this year, Vitaly Mutko answered that his estimate was around 84 or 85 million square metres. However, ensuring stable construction rates requires having 120 million square metres in development. Currently, this indicator is around 98 or 99 million. But the measures earlier described by the General Director should help.
Topics
Housing
Persons
Mutko Vitaly
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2021, 20:20
Text version