Events
Meeting with King Abdullah II of Jordan
At the Army 2021 forum the President met with King Adbullah II of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, who is on a working visit to Russia.
August 23, 2021
17:40
Moscow Region
3 of 4
With King Abdullah II of Jordan.
Before the talks, Vladimir Putin and Abdullah II
reviewed military hardware on display at the Army 2021 International Military Technical Forum in the Patriot military patriotic park.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty, welcome to Moscow and to this, now annual, exhibition, the seventh [Army 2021 forum] military exhibition, and the Army Games.
We have just had a brief opportunity to review some of the weapons used by the Russian armed forces and exported to other countries.
As I have said today during the opening of the exhibition and the Army Games, direct contacts with colleagues from foreign armies bring us closer and build trust. Perhaps it is even more important than showcasing weapons, although that also plays a part in strengthening stability.
Your Majesty, I would like to start this meeting by saying that, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, our relations are developing across all areas. This is true of our political dialogue and our trade and economic links. Russia and Jordan have an intergovernmental commission. The head of its Russian chapter, the Minister of Agriculture [Dmitry Patrushev] is here today.
We are working together to overcome both the pandemic and its consequences.
We are delighted to see you here, Your Majesty. Welcome.
Of course, we hope to share views on the most pressing issues, including the matters that we have been working on together for many years: normalising the situation in Syria and the recent escalation in Afghanistan.
Welcome.
King Adbullah II of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Mr President, thank you very much for the wonderful hospitality. It is always good to see you back here in Moscow, and, again, to be able to participate in one of your very important military exhibitions.
As you always know, Sir, we look tremendously to the role that you and Russia play in our region as an element of stability with the challenges that we have.
Our bilateral relations continue to improve, and I think that coming out of the pandemic, there are many opportunities with agriculture as well as mining research in Jordan that we are now going to develop with the private sector from your country.
Also, we are here exploring the possibility of medical cooperation on vaccine production in the near future.
But I think more important, as you alluded to, Sir, are the challenges that we have in Syria, where you play, I think, the most stable role in being able to move that process forward. And, again, your historical role in the Middle East peace process. Having met the new Israeli government, I believe that we can be back to talking about how to improve the lives of the Palestinians, but again, with the strong role that you played in that particular aspect, the chance of maybe getting the Israelis and Palestinians to at least start talking to each other.
We are all watching the unfolding developments in Afghanistan with great concern, but, Sir, I think we have always fought against extremism, and unfortunately over the past year of the pandemic, plus what is happening in Afghanistan, I think we have to re-coordinate our role in being able to take the fight back to extremism, not just in our part of the world but for the field also.
We are also very thankful, Sir, for the support in getting the Sputnik vaccine to Jordan: this is ongoing, and we are very grateful for the role that you played in helping us fight the pandemic.
(In Russian.) Thank you.
See also
International Military Technical Forum Army 2021
August 23, 2021
Geography
Jordan
Topics
Armed Forces
Foreign policy
Persons
Abdullah II
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2021, 17:40
Text versionEvents
Keel-laying ceremonies for new Navy warships
The President took part, via videoconference, in a keel-laying ceremony for the Navy’s new warships at the leading Russian shipbuilding yards.
August 23, 2021
15:20
Moscow Region
2 of 3
At the keel-laying ceremony for the Navy’s new warships. With Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Deputy Defence Minister Alexei Krivoruchko (right).
The keel-laying ceremonies were held at the Sevmash plant in Severodvinsk, the Admiralty Shipyards in St Petersburg, and the Amur Shipbuilding Company in Komsomolsk-on-Amur. Commemorative plaques were installed on the nuclear-powered cruiser submarines Knyaz Potyomkin and Dmitry Donskoy, the ocean-going submarines Mozhaisk and Yakutsk, corvettes Grozny and Buiny.
* * *
Speech at the keel-laying ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Congratulations to all shipbuilders and navy sailors of Russia on this new important stage in the development of the Russian Navy. We are launching construction of another series of modern warships.
Today, we are laying down two multi-purpose short-range ships in Komsomolsk-on-Amur and four long-range submarines at Sevmash and the Admiralty Shipyards.
We cherish the glorious traditions of the Russian Navy, preserving the succession of the continuous Russian history that goes back centuries. This is why the two new nuclear-powered cruiser submarines will be named Dmitry Donskoy and Knyaz Potyomkin, as a tribute to the memory and heroism of our outstanding ancestors.
The two long-range diesel submarines were named after the cities of Mozhaisk and Yakutsk. The two multi-purpose ships were given names that are typical in the Russian Navy, Grozny and Buiny.
I would like to stress that all the ships will be equipped with modern high-precision weapons, the latest navigation and communications equipment. The majority of these technologies proved their effectiveness during combat operations in Syria.
I have said it before and I will say it again: a strong sovereign Russia needs a powerful and balanced Navy. The Navy plays a key role in ensuring the security of our country and protecting our national interests. It makes a weighty contribution to strengthening strategic parity and international stability.
We will continue to develop Russia's naval potential, improve the naval base system and the fleet infrastructure, fit out the ships with the most advanced weapons and equipment, provide training for complicated battle missions during drills and long-distance voyages, and “demonstrate” the Russian flag in strategically important areas of the world ocean.
These important and major tasks are based on the geopolitical location of our country and its role in global affairs. The building of a cutting-edge, efficient Navy demands higher standards of the Russian shipbuilders.
I would like to thank everyone who is taking part in this huge and important work for our country, and thank the shipyard workers, engineers, and all your colleagues, employees in our design bureaus for the well-managed and coordinated work. Despite the pandemic restrictions, you have boosted the construction of contemporary ships and auxiliary vessels, and moreover, you accelerated the launch of the ships for the Navy when it was possible.
Over a period of the next few years, you will have quite a serious job to implement the state defence orders, to realise plans outlined in the state arms programme, so that in six years, in 2027, the share of contemporary ships in the Russian Navy reaches 70 percent.
I am sure that shipbuilders and navy sailors will continue to successfully perform the tasks at hand and do everything in their power to provide our Navy with contemporary ships and promote Russia’s position as a leading naval power.
I wish your teams new spectacular results. Thank you all very much for your work.
Please, colleagues.
(The keel-laying ceremony for the Navy’s warships.)
Friends, colleagues, comrades,
I congratulate you all on the major work to develop the Russian Navy. It is yet another step towards strengthening the security of the Russian state.
I am sure that workers, engineers and navy sailors who will be involved in the construction of new combat vessels will do a great job dealing with their tasks.
I wish you every success.
Thank you, and all the best.
See also
International Military Technical Forum Army 2021
August 23, 2021
Geography
Moscow Region
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2021, 15:20
Text version