Events
Meeting with permanent members of Security Council
The President had a meeting on current issues with the permanent members of the Security Council, via videoconference.
October 28, 2021
14:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 2
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
As you know, an international conference on environmental protection and land use is to be held in the UK in early November. The agenda is quite broad. We will also discuss topics related to this agenda today. Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection Sergei Ivanov will make a report.
Let us get started. Please, Mr Ivanov, you have the floor.
<…>
See also
Security Council News
Topics
Environment
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: October 28, 2021, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Russia-ASEAN Summit
Vladimir Putin took part in the Russia-ASEAN summit via videoconference.
October 28, 2021
11:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
Russia-ASEAN summit (via videoconference).
The meeting was timed to coincide with the 30th anniversary of relations between Russia and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
, which is marked this year. The leaders summed up the results of long-term cooperation, considered ways to expand political, economic and humanitarian interaction, and exchanged views on the situation in the Asia-Pacific region.
Taking part in the summit were the Sultan and Head of State of Brunei Darussalam, the incumbent Chair of ASEAN Hassanal Bolkiah; Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia Hun Sen; President of the Republic of Indonesia Joko Widodo
; Prime Minister of Lao People's Democratic Republic Phankham Viphavanh; Prime Minister of Malaysia Ismail Sabri Yaakob; President of the Republic of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte
; Prime Minister of the Republic of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong; Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand Prayut Chan-o-cha; Prime Minister of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam Pham Minh Chinh; and Secretary General of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Lim Jock Hoi.
* * *
Opening remarks at the 4th Russia-ASEAN summit
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to greet His Majesty the Sultan of Brunei Darussalam, who is chairing the Russia – ASEAN Summit. My greetings to all our ASEAN friends.
Strengthening ties with ASEAN and its member states has always been and remains one of Russia's foreign policy priorities. This year we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of official relations between our country and ASEAN. These relations, as recorded in the Joint Statement adopted at the Russia-ASEAN Summit in Singapore in 2018, are truly strategic in nature.
See also
Joint statement of the 4th ASEAN-Russia summit: building a peaceful, stable and sustainable region
October 28, 2021
Statement of ASEAN and the Russian Federation on Cooperation against Illicit Drugs Trafficking
October 28, 2021
Comprehensive plan of action (CPA) to implement the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Russian Federation strategic partnership (2021–2025)
October 28, 2021
This is confirmed by the accumulated experience of practical cooperation and a solid package of agreements between us that cover the political, economic, social, humanitarian and other spheres. It is important that not only governments, but also businesses, the public and academia are involved in the interaction between Russia and ASEAN.
I would like to point out that the positions of Russia and the ASEAN states on key global and regional matters are similar in many respects. Most importantly, we all support the expansion of equal and mutually beneficial cooperation in the vast Asia-Pacific space.
We now have real opportunities to intensify cooperation between Russia and ASEAN, including with regard to strengthening stability and security, post-pandemic economic recovery, stimulating trade, and expanding humanitarian contacts.
I am sure that today's summit will be held in just such an atmosphere.
I wish all of us productive work. Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Additional
East Asia Summit
October 27, 2021
Topics
Foreign policy
Russia–ASEAN
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 28, 2021, 11:30
Text version