President of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh : I am happy that my first foreign visit is to the Russian Federation. It is timed to the 100 anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Mongolia and Russia. This visit is of historical significance. During the talks with Mr Putin, we summed up the development of relations over the past century, exchanged in detail our views on further goals and areas of cooperation and on major joint projects, and mapped out prospects for joint actions for the next century.Events
Meeting with ASI General Director Svetlana Chupsheva
Vladimir Putin met with General Director of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives (ASI) Svetlana Chupsheva.
December 16, 2021
22:30
Moscow
3 of 3
General Director of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Svetlana Chupsheva.
ASI General Director Svetlana Chupsheva: Mr President, you have set us a task to boost economic growth and to launch a new investment cycle. I would like to say a few words about how the Agency for Strategic Initiatives is contributing to this.
We have just been discussing the quality-of-life ranking. I would like to add that we are now finalising the investment appeal ranking as well – on a national scale – taking into account the new tasks that you have set, that the regions have set, and most importantly, taking into account entrepreneurs’ requirements for the ease of doing business.
See also
Meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board
December 16, 2021
What have we done? We have added several new indicators for evaluation, such as obtaining permits, gaining access, connecting to gas and water, as well as issues and procedures with the lease of land, land plots. There is a whole new block for the evaluation and creation of infrastructure for technology entrepreneurship.
There is something I wanted to ask. We have always measured administrative pressure on business for the ranking – everything related to inspections by various authorities. We have repeatedly raised the issue of forceful pressure on business. Now we can take a second step here: the For Business platform we have been implementing together with the Prosecutor General’s Office, the Investigative Committee, the FSB, and the Ministry of the Interior – representatives of all these agencies at the level of deputy heads are included in the platform’s supervisory board. Entrepreneurs from any region can submit a complaint to this platform, a petition, a report saying the business disagreed with an inspection, with investigative actions or criminal prosecution. And it is very important…
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: No intermediaries.
Svetlana Chupsheva: Yes. And it is very important that each complaint is considered by these agencies’ central offices. The effort has already become systematic, and it is very important that our colleagues in the regions have joined in – we organise joint meetings at the [federal] district level, and discuss matters with regional authorities, with entrepreneurs, and law enforcement agencies; we do awareness-raising work, and we get lawyers involved in that. Would it be possible to add these measurements as monitoring indicators to the national investment ranking methodology, to measure annual changes in all constituent regions? We could use it for adjustments. We will see which regions record the greatest pressure from the law enforcement agencies, and will work this out with the central offices of the respective departments. If you support us, we are ready to work it out with our colleagues.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, this is a good idea.
Svetlana Chupsheva: Mr President, here comes the second part. I mentioned this as a new strategy as well and it is about targeted work with the constituent regions of the Russian Federation, when we, guided by an analytical toolkit in the form of feedback from residents and entrepreneurs, decide what projects or breakthrough growth points can be launched in the territories. After that, we will join efforts with the local teams, analysts and the governor to create such projects. Some governors have already come up with their first reports. It is critically important that Maxim Oreshkin works with us.
Most importantly, the region receives federal support for these projects, which are needed primarily by residents and businesses, in terms of infrastructure support and being included in national projects and federal programmes.
The third block, where we also see major opportunities for new drivers for the regional economies, includes interregional projects that will provide a multiplier effect. We are currently carrying out several such projects. One of them concerns the social sphere and medicine. It is an interregional project for children’s centres providing specialised high-tech medical help for children.
Today, we have regional and federal centres, but there are many complicated cases across the country where specialised medical help is needed.
Doctors in Moscow or St Petersburg have constant practice, whereas specialists in remote regions in Siberia and the Far Eastern Federal District simply cannot gain enough experience in such operations or building such a system for providing medical help. An interregional project for an interregional centre can help. I am not talking about new infrastructure. All of that can be based on existing regional infrastructure.
We propose launching a pilot project in the Far Eastern Federal District which has the highest infant mortality rates nationwide. The Far Eastern Federal District’s regions are supportive of this idea. We went there and toured the regional children’s hospitals in the Primorye Territory and the Khabarovsk Territory together with federal specialists, experts, and officials from the Ministry of Healthcare.
What makes a medical centre? First, human resources, including proper staffing and mentoring by federal specialists. It also includes properly equipping such centres to comply with international and domestic protocols, with federal centres providing such medical help. Proper routing and transport services are also part of this, since logistics must be brought up to code as well.
One way or another, we have estimates by territory, and we have practical experience. We are prepared, in conjunction with the Ministry of Healthcare, federal specialists, and the Association of Russian Surgeons, to develop regulations governing such interregional centres, as well as requirements and criteria to identify the diseases that make particular young patients eligible for treatment at the interregional centres. The tentative bases include the Khabarovsk Territory (Khabarovsk Regional Children’s Hospital No. 1) and Vladivostok (Territorial Children’s Hospital No. 1) which have adequate staff and the necessary infrastructure. So, with your support, we are prepared, in conjunction with the Ministry of Healthcare and the regions, to work on this pilot project. According to the experts, child mortality rates can be reduced by 10 to 20 percent in one year.
Vladimir Putin: We will discuss this with Ms Golikova and Mr Murashko. We will work on it together, this is a good idea.
Svetlana Chupsheva: Of course. Thank you, Mr President.
Persons
Chupsheva Svetlana
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2021, 22:30
Text versionEvents
Talks with President of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh
Vladimir Putin held talks in the Kremlin with President of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh, who has come to Russia on a working visit.
December 16, 2021
14:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Talks with President of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh.
After a conversation in restricted format, the talks continued in the working breakfast format.
Following international consultations, the presidents of the two countries made statements for the press.
In addition, a Joint Declaration was adopted on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Russia and Mongolia.
* * *
Beginning of talks with President of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
First of all, I would like to thank you for accepting the invitation to come to Russia. As far as I know, this is your first foreign visit since your election. It is a good sign.
See also
Press statements following Russian-Mongolian talks
Your visit is taking place in the year of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries, which are based on the Treaty on Friendly Relations and Comprehensive Strategic Partnership that we signed several years ago.
Moreover, our relations are developing in nearly all spheres, despite the pandemic, including the economy, political ties, in the area of military cooperation and on the international stage.
I know that you have a very busy agenda during your trip to Russia. I am confident that your visit will be successful and will yield good results.
Regarding the economy, our trade went down by 20 percent last year because of the pandemic, but in the first three quarters of this year it increased by approximately 25 percent. There are reasons to believe that we will return to the pre-pandemic level and that we can surpass it.
Mr President, I am delighted to see you. Welcome.
President of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh
(retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President.
I am very happy that after the presidential election in Mongolia, my first visit abroad is to the Russian Federation.
I also want to express my gratitude for the opportunity to organise my visit as part of celebrations of our historical anniversary, the 100th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Mongolia and Russia, despite the difficulties the pandemic continues to pose, unfortunately, all over the world.
I believe that our relations are truly historical, remarkable and good. A hundred years ago, representatives of our country arrived in Moscow, and we fought together for the independence of our country and sovereignty. During the hard years of war and in the post-war times, our peoples worked together and wrote this great history.
They did so during the Battles on the Khalkhin Gol in 1939, and during the Great Patriotic War. As you know, we have great respect for the historical role Russia played during those times. We believe that Russia played an important role in global security and in the victory over Nazism. This is why we highly respect the Great Victory holiday.
Over the past years, we have had a rich history together. We cooperated closely with the Soviet people in the Virgin Lands campaign and in the construction of large industrial facilities; we even went into space together. At the moment, we do not have any political disagreements and have had truly brotherly relations for the past 100 years. The Mongolian people feel that our friendship and comradeship are an example of good relations not only in our region, but in the world in general.
Prior to my visit, we had several important meetings, in particular, with deputy prime ministers Alexei Overchuk and Viktoria Abramchenko. A regular meeting of the intergovernmental commission was held. The Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces also visited our country. Many economic issues were dealt with before my visit to Russia.
We believe the time has come for us to talk about new undertakings in our relations.
I would also like to stress that during the years of your work as President and Prime Minister, relations between our countries have been actively developing. You have visited our country four times. The Mongolian people and our country as a whole have very friendly feelings, respectively, for the Russian people and for you personally.
There is one question though about promoting trade and economic relations between our countries. When I took office as President, I set myself the goal of implementing the Transit Mongolia national project. I believe that, as part of this project, coordination with the initiative you mentioned – the creation of the Greater Eurasian Partnership – is also very important. We strongly support this initiative.
We live in a region that connects Asia with Europe and Russia with China. The Mongolian-Russian border is over 3,500 kilometres long, and our border with China is 4,700 kilometres. We are also closely following relations between our two great neighbours, Russia and China. Yesterday, you had a meeting with the head of the People's Republic of China [Xi Jinping], and we are observing your cooperation with great interest, and I think the whole world also pays great attention to it.
That is why we are putting forward the initiative to promote the Transit Mongolia programme, since the shortest route connecting Europe with Asia and Russia with China passes through our territory.
Our plans include the construction of two railways – eastern and western – which run through the eastern and western parts of our country. On the eastern side, this railway connects China with the Trans-Baikal Territory and goes to Far Eastern ports. And in the western direction, this railway continues the Kyzyl-Kuragino Railway and goes further across our territory to China.
We also have a question about upgrading the central railway corridor that runs through Irkutsk.
We are very pleased with the results of the project to build a gas pipeline from Russia to China across Mongolia.
In 2019, as Prime Minister, when I was in the Russian Federation on a visit, you and I, Mr President, initiated this project. I am very pleased that this project is a success.
<…>
Geography
Mongolia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Khurelsukh Ukhnaagiin
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2021, 14:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board
Vladimir Putin chaired a videoconference meeting of the Supervisory Board of the autonomous non-profit organisation Agency for Strategic Initiatives to Promote New Projects.
December 16, 2021
22:05
Moscow
9 of 11
During a meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board held via videoconference.
Before the start of the meeting, the President visited an exhibition of ASI’s achievements and future projects. The President was shown seven stands featuring ASI’s main projects and plans for its activities in 2022–2024.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Today – we have just learned about the projects, and I will tell you about them later – but I would like to start by saying that today we are holding an important and, even in some sense, a special meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives (ASI) Supervisory Board. The Agency should determine its goals and tasks for the next three years and record the key areas of its work, which should logically continue its entire history. I would like to start with its landmarks.
A decade ago, in December 2011, the Agency was instructed to implement the National Business Initiative. Its efforts produced not only up-to-date regulations and procedures for doing business that were new and more effective.
The changes proved to be much more profound. The regions saw more managers that make decisions with due account for the interests and requirements of people doing their own business.
Supporting ideas and individual projects, you have always striven for proactive, systemic changes. When I say “you,” I am primarily addressing the Agency as such. Thus, the WorldSkills championships have actually developed into a nationwide movement in Russia, new programmes of vocational training and a broad network of additional education for children, very often in the professions of the future.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the WorldSkills junior section and the team of the Boiling Point project on winning Knowledge Society prizes for their outstanding educational activities.
I believe these prizes are evidence of the contribution by the entire Agency to promoting advanced approaches and views, and to uniting around common values a large community of people that are ready to see changes and get involved in developing their cities, regions and the entire country.
It was important to carry out this work. It is being carried out now as well, as I see from the projects that we reviewed, and is focused on uniting people who are passionate about a particular cause. These people are entrepreneurs, researchers, people from the non-profit sector and creative industries and, of course, young people.
I have no doubt that during this new, equally dazzling and effective stage of the Agency's future development, its key mission, which is to engage citizens in achieving our national development goals, should remain unchanged. It is imperative to help them realise their ideas and initiatives.
Now, as we know, the Agency has over 4.5 million like-minded partners in Russia. I know that in three years the Agency plans to more than double this community to 10 million people. This is already a large “army.”
Most importantly, these should not be perfunctory numbers or some kind of indicators, but a really powerful community, a force made of energetic people capable of making a meaningful contribution to the general national agenda.
In this regard, I would like to note that with the participation of VEB – I see the head of VEB on one of these screens – a comprehensive mechanism for implementing civil projects will be created, and the Powerful Ideas for New Times forum will become a permanent platform for collecting meaningful and constructive proposals. By the way, I propose holding this forum in the first quarter of 2022.
Next, and I already mentioned this, we had a chance to see at the exhibition how the digital platform, which brings together best regional practices, works. They have proven effective in helping people resolve everyday problems.
I want the relevant State Council commissions to team up with the Agency and build an effective system for spreading the management teams’ experience locally. During our tour of the projects, we heard many requests to ask the Government, to instruct the Government, to develop in conjunction with the Government – in a word, it is necessary to include the most important decisions in national projects and state programmes, including in the sphere of infrastructure improvements.
(Addressing General Director of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Svetlana Chupsheva.) I hope, Svetlana, that you and I will not forget the words the young people said at the exhibition, and their proposals will need to be summarised and properly drafted in the form of instructions.
Of course, it is important to share your best practices and be open to new ideas. Again, I am saying this to the Agency. It is important to form teams and bring onboard like-minded people from our country and other countries as well. I see that this work is underway, which is good
I know that Boiling Point is already underway in Kazakhstan. I would like to hear from you about other plans to expand international cooperation and projects at the global level, because this entails access to the markets of third countries, which invariably increases the competitive environment, which means that ultimately it will increase competitiveness as well.
A whole ecosystem, as they say now, has formed around the Agency, which brings together initiatives in the social sphere, nature conservation, personnel training, and the development of advanced technology.
Here is what I would like to emphasise. All our state work and the Agency's work should, of course, revolve around people and their well-being. We have just reviewed a project which does exactly that: it puts in the centre the individual with their interests, requests, plans, etc. Of course, in fact, every project should be lined up this way. These goals should be linked together and run across all programmes and projects.
The Agency must concentrate on its activities in the regions, help local management teams achieve visible changes at schools, outpatient clinics, hospitals, social protection institutions, and to take into account the residents’ requests and suggestions. As a matter of fact, this is how things are, and I hope not only on paper, but in real life as well.
By the way, much depends on the Government here. We have just now talked about free school meals and so on, and also about amendments to the current legislation. We will need to work on this later.
I also expect the ASI to make a substantial contribution to the establishment of the Federation of New Development Centres in the regions, the development of a modern urban environment and the promotion of national technologies and the so-called green technology, the environmentally friendly solutions in energy and construction, including within the framework of your new system-wide project, the National Environmental Initiative.
In this context I would like to point out (I see that members of the Presidential Executive Office and Government ministers are attending this meeting) that our colleagues who presented their projects have asked us to amend the law to add industrial waste, including construction waste, to the regions’ competence, because they would be unable to regulate these activities otherwise. There is much to do in that sphere, and the regions are ready to do it, whereas now they are only responsible for general waste. They have no control over construction waste, and so they cannot address the issue quickly or properly. I see that the Economic Development Minister is taking notes. I would like to thank him and to express the hope that we will follow this issue to its logical end.
As we agreed, we will keep an eye on the indicators of the national quality of life rating. The ASI initiative on assessing the integral results and the regional teams’ efforts to improve the quality of life is very important and we must support it. During the St Petersburg International Economic Forum last summer, we discussed the first tentative results of this project. Today we will take a look at the situation in individual regions based on the analysis of the available data.
Next, one of the Agency’s major tasks is to help people in all age groups to find their place in the changing technological world. The main thing here is to ensure that learning new skills and competencies increases the people’s real income. It is in accordance with this logic that the Agency should launch convenient learning formats, including for those who would like to start a business or work for themselves in the positive sense, that is, become independently employed.
I would also like to tell the Agency’s Youth Initiatives Centre that it should continue working to create a comprehensive modern environment for the development of children’s, youth, business and technology teams, especially considering that we know examples when teenagers, very young people indeed, want to run a business and start very successful businesses. There are some wonderful start-ups. Their goal for the first ten years of operation is not only to succeed in the national market but also to take their projects to international markets.
And lastly, another important goal is to work together with like-minded organisations to analyse and forecast the development of technologies and social projects and processes in the next 20–30 years and possibly in a longer term. This is very important for properly organising their own operation.
This vision of the future has a huge, applied importance already at the current stage in this rapidly changing world. It helps set the guidelines, reconsider some things, promptly respond to arising challenges and look at the current stage from a different perspective. It is a crucial job, including in terms of education. It is extremely important, and I am sure that the country and society need it.
Let us get down to the issues on our agenda today.
<…>
Topics
Science and innovation
Social services
Persons
Chupsheva Svetlana
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 16, 2021, 22:05
Text version