Events
Meeting with leaders of United Russia party pre-election list
Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with the leaders of the United Russia party pre-election list.
September 27, 2021
13:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 2
At the meeting with leaders of United Russia party pre-election list (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Defence Minister and member of the Bureau of the United Russia party Supreme Council Sergei Shoigu
, Presidential Commissioner for Children’s Rights Anna Kuznetsova
, Head Physician of City Clinical Hospital No. 40 of the Moscow Healthcare Department Denis Protsenko, Head of the Sirius Educational Centre and the Talent and Success foundation, member of the Presidential Council for Science and Education Yelena Shmeleva.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I am delighted to see all of you, and it is exactly in this format that I wanted to meet with you. We have met in a broader format before the State Duma elections that you, the leaders of the party list, took part in. And now I would like to congratulate you on United Russia’s convincing victory at the election to the State Duma of the 8th convocation, and to thank you as the party’s leaders for this commendable result of the election campaign. It certainly reflects the high level of trust that people have in the party, its practical actions for the good of Russia and our society. Of course, the party gets quite a few complaints, which is normal for a ruling party; this is inevitable, this is how it should be. But the main thing is that people trust those they vote for. And the main thing is that you are working for the health, welfare and safety of the people. People are aware of this.
Every one of you has certainly made a huge personal contribution to the election success of the party. Some of you are prominent people who are very well known in the country, who have earned respect in society with your work and talent. Of course, it was not only your authority and services that influenced the choice people made. You also played a very active part in the election campaign, which involved practical efforts, and, crucially, people could see that you really love our country and want to improve the situation; they saw that you do care for the national interests and traditional values of our homeland. They took your statements and opinions into account, as well as your services to the country, as I have already mentioned, and they saw that your positions and views were competent, honest and sincere.
You have also greatly contributed to the development of the party’s election agenda and you gave the necessary amount of attention, special attention to it during the election campaign, telling people about the plans you will be implementing together with our society.
It is important that the party has indicated its striving for internal development and renewal, which is certainly what society needs. It is also important that the party put on its list both respected and distinguished people, as I have already mentioned, including those with a long service record in parliament, and also young people, whose actions hold promise and who, undoubtedly, deserve to be representatives of the people in our supreme legislative body. Based on the election results, the United Russia party faction may be renewed by almost 50 percent.
Of course, the party sustained certain losses compared to 2016, as I have mentioned, which is inevitable, especially in a period that included the severe test of the pandemic, a decline in people’s incomes, a decrease in production and an increase in the number of people who lost their jobs – all of this was inevitable per se. Nevertheless, the party retained its leading position, which is extremely important; moreover, considering the success of its candidates in single-mandate electoral districts, the party will again have a constitutional majority in the State Duma. This is an important, a significant achievement and an earnest of continuity and sustainable development of the country, which is important for the country as well.
In light of the situation, it is understandable that those who were in the United Russia headquarters shouted “Hurray!” – I could hear that, I saw this with my own eyes. However, colleagues and friends, this is what I would like to point out: the meaning of this victorious battle cry can differ. It is one thing when the goal has been achieved and we are standing on the ruins of the defeated enemy fortress, when victory is ours. But it is another matter when we are only charging, going into the attack, resolved to win, but have not yet done everything to attain victory – this is precisely the current situation.
The party still has a great deal of work ahead at the federal and regional levels, actually in every city and village. I know that you will continue defending the interests of your voters, acting differently in different places, but holding high positions, one way or another, in the representative bodies of the party, working to implement the programme that has been described, with good reason, as the people’s programme, because it is based on the proposals our citizens submitted.
It seems reasonable to me that you will chair the commissions of United Russia that have been established by the party for specific purposes. Sergei Shoigu, who has told me about the development of Eastern Siberia on numerous occasions and has also announced his plans for the whole country to hear, will chair a party commission on the development of Eastern Siberia. Sergei Lavrov will chair a commission on international cooperation and support of compatriots living abroad. Incidentally, there is a great deal to be done in this sphere, namely, improving the migration policy and attracting Russian speakers, people of the same culture to the country. There are many details in this sphere that are hindering efficient progress towards our goal. Yelena Shmeleva will chair a commission on education and science, Denis Protsenko, a commission on healthcare, while Anna Kuznetsova will chair a commission on maternity, child protection and family support, and will also directly coordinate our efforts in this sphere in the State Duma.
I am confident that these party commissions will help us structure our efforts so that the election mandate and the people’s programme of the party as a whole will be implemented in full.
Colleagues, friends,
I would like to once again thank you for your responsible and efficient work during the elections and to express hope that you will continue working energetically in the future as well.
I wish you every success.
Topics
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 27, 2021, 13:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with the Prime Minister and deputy prime ministers
Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin and deputy prime ministers.
September 27, 2021
14:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Meeting with the Prime Minister and deputy prime ministers (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Dmitry Grigorenko
, deputy prime ministers Viktoria Abramchenko
, Yury Borisov
, Tatyana Golikova
, Alexander Novak
, Marat Khusnullin
and Dmitry Chernyshenko
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mishustin knows that I asked him to organise this meeting following the election campaign to the State Duma of the eighth convocation.
You know its results. The parliament will comprise deputies from five parties that were supported by the citizens of our country during the elections. Four parties have confirmed their parliamentary status – these are United Russia, the Communist Party of Russia, A Just Russia – For Truth, and the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia. For the first time since 1999, a fifth parliamentary party has entered the Duma – the New People party.
All parties had their election programmes, which they will be implementing, including by suggesting legislative initiatives. I ask you to work closely with all the parties and pay attention to their appeals and requests.
United Russia has confirmed its leadership with the constitutional majority. One of its main goals now is to implement its programme, which is rightfully called “the people’s programme” because it was formed on the basis of citizens’ suggestions.
Why I am speaking about this now is because it needs to be implemented through a working dialogue between the parliament and the Government. You also took part in the development of this programme, and I would like to thank you for this major work during the election campaign.
I would also like to highlight that the Constitutional amendments have clearly elevated the role of interaction between the parliament and the Government. Not only has the parliament obtained a bigger say in forming the Government, but interaction between the two essential branches of power, the executive and the legislative, has gained substantial momentum.
Overall, the contacts with the seventh State Duma were quite effective. Keeping up this business-like manner is essential. The time has come to carry out the programme of the party that I have mentioned. These provisions deal with almost all aspects of life: the economy, demographics, education, healthcare, science, and culture. Special attention is being paid to employment and supporting families with children, as well as defending our traditional values. I will not go over the entire list, since you are well aware of all these provisions.
I would just like to point out and emphasise once again that you have proactively contributed to drafting this programme, so it is now up to you to do everything to make sure that the whole programme is carried out, to the fullest possible extent, by working together with the parliament, all party factions represented in the parliament, and also the United Russia party.
It is essential that people feel that the country is moving forward, and we are successful in these efforts, while all the benchmarks from the campaign programmes of the United Russia party, as well as other parties fit into our national development goals. Only then can we make sure that Russian society in its entirety contributes to these efforts. You are aware of how important it is that people feel part of a joint undertaking and know that they are contributing to this process. We can achieve the best results only if we work together as a single team and, as I have already mentioned, move forward persistently and relentlessly.
We have a lot of work ahead of us, but we are not starting out from scratch. On the contrary, much has already been done, including through the Government’s efforts, but we all understand that we need to do even more and be even more effective in order to fulfil all our plans.
I just met with the leaders on the United Russia list in the same online format and told them that I heard the “Hurray” battle cry in some headquarters after the announcement of the election results. Meanwhile, it is too early for us to celebrate, as though we have reached all our goals. We have not yet defeated the enemy; and who is our enemy? The poverty of a considerable part of our population, as well as the current problems in the healthcare system, education and infrastructure development. We have many problems we need to tackle. They are our number one enemy. In the meantime, our main goal is to improve the living standards of the people in our country.
I would like to ask you to motivate your teams in all branches – the Government, the ministries and departments – to perform the tasks facing us in a prompt, professional and efficient way.
I would like to thank you again for your work during the election campaign and, in general, for the election results. We realise that there are fundamental tasks and that people judge our progress in their implementation. However, the Government’s real, routine and current work is no less important, and you have done this work at a good, professional level despite the pandemic. All this worked for United Russia when preparing for its election campaign, and, of course, this translated into the final figures we saw when the election results were calculated.
So, thank you very much, and I would like to say again that I hope you will work just as enthusiastically and efficiently in the near and mid-term perspective. Thank you.
We will talk about this with a number of our colleagues in various formats. I have just heard – I did not listen in, I really didn’t – but I heard how intensively you discussed ways of resolving current problems. We discuss them every day and I was very pleased to note that this momentum, this feisty attitude does not disappear but, on the contrary, is obviously getting stronger. This is vital because the election campaign is over, and the formation of the supreme representative government body is a crucial stage in the country’s life but you must move on and this is what the work on the march should be like.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Civil service
Parties
Persons
Mishustin Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 27, 2021, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Security Council meeting
The President chaired a meeting of the Security Council, via videoconference, during which the participants discussed measures to improve the strategic planning system in the Russian Federation.
September 27, 2021
14:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
Security Council meeting (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today we will discuss ways to improve the strategic planning system. This is very important and topical and has a direct bearing on both national security and Russia’s development prospects.
Strategic planning sets the main benchmarks and the direction of progress in key areas for the coming decades. Doctrines and long-term development programmes, as well as the strategies and basic principles of government policy determine vital national priorities that are designed to reach common goals. Naturally, these goals are basically used to support the people of Russia, improve the health and living standards of our citizens, protect our traditional moral values, maintain sustainable economic development, and care for the environment. Of course, it is also necessary to reliably defend our country against internal and external threats and ensure state sovereignty.
See also
Comment by Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev following a Security Council meeting
September 27, 2021
Today, our strategic planning is determined by the Strategy of the National Security of the Russian Federation and the Presidential Executive Order On the National Development Goals of the Russian Federation through 2030. These are the main documents that underlie our strategic planning. In addition, we have adopted and are implementing numerous long-term federal, regional and municipal programmes and plans.
That said, the established process does not ensure a comprehensive approach in strategic planning. For example, a number of documents, primarily those adopted at the regional and municipal levels, sometimes do not match each other in objectives and schedules. It is not always possible to develop proper inter-departmental cooperation in the course of their implementation.
In this context, it is important to upgrade the strategic planning system and develop it on an entirely new basis. Of course, in so doing we should not just blindly copy previous methods but should develop and apply the latest practices and approaches. We need to adapt to Russia’s peculiarities while using the best foreign experience, both from states and companies. Major companies are doing this today successfully all over the world, and we must consider their practices.
See also
News of Security Council
I would like to emphasise that we need a balanced, consistent and integrated strategic planning system to create up-to-date and well thought-out plans and programmes to achieve specific results. Our planning system should encourage all government bodies, civil society in general, and the business community to follow the same logic and achieve priority goals together for the sake of a successful, prosperous future in Russia.
The Basic Principles of State Policy on Strategic Planning that were prepared, should allow us to achieve the above goals. We will discuss their draft today.
In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the following essential tasks.
First, to make strategic planning more efficient, it is necessary to streamline the number of documents adopted primarily at the regional and municipal levels. Naturally, they must be strictly tailored to the federal documents.
The second task is to ensure coordination between strategic planning and the budget process. These should not be two different, unrelated processes. We need to focus our resources on key areas. In drafting budgets at all levels, we must give absolute priority to our national goals in socioeconomic development and national security.
The third task is to upgrade information and analytical support for strategic planning, first by using uniform benchmark data and common methodology to forecast and model future developments. We must do more to involve the research community in this work and develop a Russian school of strategic planning.
Fourth, we need to improve the control and monitoring of strategic planning. A formal, mechanical approach will not work. It should be as meaningful as possible. An efficient monitoring system can reveal the risk of a failure to fulfil goals and objectives, determine why it happened or might happen and improve the forecasting of these risks. In the process, it is essential to offer immediate solutions to resolve emerging problems.
Finally, the fifth point. The situation in the world and in Russia, in particular, is changing dynamically. This is obvious, and we see all of it. New factors, trends and risks are emerging. Sometimes, ongoing events tangibly change the plans we make.
The coronavirus epidemic that swept every country in the world last year led to serious restrictions in social life, the closing of borders and a forced reduction in business activity. Hence, we carried out fundamentally new, large-scale measures to support the economy and our people. In these conditions, it was necessary to have mechanisms to quickly adjust and fine-tune adopted plans and programmes.
Overall, we managed this time to make prompt changes that really worked well, but in the future, we should not have to resort to “manual control” under such circumstances. Instead, we should use the experience we have developed to follow an almost automatic algorithm of actions.
Let’s get to work and discuss the main ways for improving the strategic planning system.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: September 27, 2021, 14:50
Text version