Events
Ceremony to present state decorations
Vladimir Putin presented state decorations to responders involved in flood and wildfire relief efforts in Russia's regions.
September 4, 2021
00:50
Blagoveshchensk
1 of 8
The ceremony to present state decorations of the Russian Federation. The Medal of Nesterov is awarded to Andrei Sinchenko, aircraft commander and instructor of the Be-200ChS flight of the Russian Emergencies Ministry’s Khabarovsk Aviation Rescue Centre.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades, friends,
Once again, please accept my congratulations on receiving state decorations. This is a case where we can say your service is difficult and dangerous – and it is noble as well. You are deservedly called rescuers: this word conveys the essence of your work.
I have visited many such locations and have seen the situations you have to deal with constantly. But I came and I left – while you have to work with people, and I know how hard it is, both physically and emotionally. You have to experience it all, and this is what your life is about.
On behalf of all those you help and rescue, I would like to thank you with all my heart for your service and your work. You have your own families, children and loved ones. I am sure you would not have it any other way: you live in the moment, the moment and focus on those who await your help.
I am aware of how difficult it is to face other people’s pain and suffering. But you give them a helping hand and support them, sometimes putting your own lives at risk. Sadly, it happens that people sacrifice their own lives to save others, and there is nothing more noble than that.
Thank you very much for your hard work. I wish you all the best.
Geography
Amur Region
Topics
Regions
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2021, 00:50
Text versionEvents
Video address to participants at the Dresden Opera Ball in St Petersburg
September 4, 2021
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Video address to participants at the Dresden Opera Ball in St Petersburg.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
Welcome to the opening of the 2nd Dresden Opera Ball in St Petersburg. Taking place in the ceremonial rooms of the Catherine Palace, this year’s festival has a particularly grand feeling. The ball marks a special anniversary, 60 years since St Petersburg and Dresden became sister cities.
We value these strong decades-long ties with our German friends and we appreciate the experience of cooperating in a great variety of fields. Cultural and humanitarian projects play an essential role in this cooperation, as do both of the cities, St Petersburg and Dresden, which are major European and global cultural centres.
We know that Richard Wagner, whose life was closely associated with Dresden, had the first performances of his operas staged at the Mariinsky Theatre. Also, Dmitry Shostakovich and Fyodor Dostoyevsky lived and worked in the beautiful German city.
I would like to sincerely thank the founder of the Dresden Opera Ball Hans-Joachim Frey for his genuine love for Russia and for organising this remarkable festival that celebrates art, traditions, friendship and trust.
This wonderful atmosphere is a contribution from all the participants and guests of the ball, including prominent Russian and foreign opera singers and ballet dancers, classical and pop musicians, world-renowned jazz players, distinguished performers and members of the art world.
I wish you many unforgettable memories. Without doubt, the Dresden Ball in St Petersburg will open up prospects for many joint projects and will reinforce the friendship between our nations.
I wish you all the best.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2021, 20:00
Text version