Events
Meeting with President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev in the Kremlin.
August 21, 2021
13:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Tokayev. I am very glad to see you. Thank you for accepting the invitation and for your visit.
Our bilateral contacts are ongoing at the highest level and in all areas – parliamentary as well as governmental: our Prime Minister has recently visited Nur-Sultan and had an extensive programme there. He reported to me in detail on all the meetings that took place.
Despite the pandemic, which resulted in last year’s slump of around 4 percent in our mutual trade, we have already seen a surge of over 33 percent during this year’s first six months.
We take active efforts to cooperate in international organisations, including our associations such as the SCO and Eurasian Economic Council.
Our cooperation is advancing in all areas and our allied relations are gaining strength and acquiring a new quality.
One of today’s most pressing issues is security, particularly in the context of the current developments in Afghanistan.
I expect that we will exchange views at our CSTO meeting via videoconference on Monday, and then will work within the SCO and CSTO framework on a regular basis in mid-September. I also hope that you and I will meet later, via videoconference, and work together. I am very thankful to you for accepting the invitation to take part in the Eastern Economic Forum events.
So we have a very extensive agenda, and today we have a great deal to discuss, particularly all those security-related developments.
President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
: Mr President, thank you for your invitation to visit Moscow.
Our contacts have indeed been constant; even amidst the pandemic, we have worked in the online mode and spoken by telephone. Yet, as the saying goes, seeing once is better than hearing twice.
As allies, Kazakhstan and Russia take consistent efforts on all items on the agenda, be it international problems, security issues, or particularly, bilateral cooperation. I am pleased to say that relations between our countries are successfully and dynamically advancing in the atmosphere of strategic partnership.
You have just mentioned the most recent figures that indicate the growth in our mutual trade. It should be noted that our border regions account for 70 percent of trade.
We have planned the meeting of the Interregional Cooperation Forum; I hope it will take place in October – at least via videoconference, as people are looking forward to this event, which is essential for giving an additional impetus to our allied relations.
Indeed, we take consistent efforts to coordinate our work as regards security issues. This problem is becoming increasingly urgent in the context of the current developments in Afghanistan. Today, I would like to hear your opinion on the events occurring in that troubled country in order to coordinate and pursue a joint policy.
<…>
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Tokayev Kassym-Jomart
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 21, 2021, 13:10
Text versionEvents
Gala concert on the occasion of Nizhny Novgorod’s 800th anniversary
Vladimir Putin attended The Beginning of the New gala show celebrating the 800th anniversary of Nizhny Novgorod.
August 21, 2021
20:35
Nizhny Novgorod
2 of 3
At the Gala concert on the occasion of Nizhny Novgorod’s 800th anniversary.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Greetings, friends, residents of Nizhny Novgorod and guests of this great city!
I sincerely, from my heart congratulate you on the 800th anniversary of Nizhny Novgorod. I congratulate all those who were born and grew up here, those whose lives, studies, achievements, first love and the warmest family memories are connected with this wonderful city, those who feel a special respect for it and admire its grandeur and beauty, and the awe-inspiring Volga landscapes.
Nizhny, as it has been called warmly since the old times, keeps the key to understanding our people’s generous soul, faith and unbending will, its striving for creating and cooperating. The cultural code, national identity, the might and the calibre of the Russian people are all condensed here.
They are represented by the old churches, the sacred spiritual places, modern art centres, the Kremlin, which has never surrendered to the enemy, the modern industrial plants, the Oka and Volga rivers, the ancient trade routes and the motorways connecting all of Eurasia. As Ilya Repin made a good point once, Nizhny is a city “majestically enthroned over the entire east of Russia.”
People of tremendous inner strength have always lived here. At all times, Nizhny Novgorod residents stood up to defend our Fatherland and felt their connection to our common great and glorious destiny.
It was like that both in the late 14th century, when Nizhny Novgorod lands played a crucial role in strengthening a unified state, in gathering the historical Russian lands, as well as in the early 17th century, when Nizhny Novgorod residents, acting together, united and led by Minin and Pozharsky, did everything in their power to put an end to the Time of Troubles and recover the country’s sovereignty.
I know that the city’s residents are not just proud of their ancestors’ feat. It is an example for all of you, and we can see that. It is no accident that in the current difficult times so many people in Nizhny Novgorod and across the region are actively involved in the volunteer movement, helping those in need. They feel a responsibility for those around them, for their native land, and for entire Russia.
Patriotism, civil engagement and bravery run in the blood of the city’s residents, as do diligence, business sagacity, entrepreneurship, engineering and science talents.
As you know, mechanic Kulibin and mathematician Lobachevsky were born here; there was bustling trade here at the famous fair, one of Europe’s largest trade venues of the time, whereas Sormovo factories and the launch of the first open-hearth furnace came to symbolise Russia’s massive industrialisation of the 19th and 20th centuries.
Nizhny Novgorod was known as Gorky during the Great Patriotic War. However, its residents’ nature remained the same as that of their ancestors. The city residents displayed heroism not only on the frontlines but also on the home front as they produced, under enemy shells, everything the army and the navy needed. Therefore, Nizhny Novgorod was rightly given the title The City of Labour Valour.
During the Soviet time, our economic and defence capabilities, unique technology of the peaceful atom and the nuclear shield of our country were created here in the city’s enterprises, both historical and those built from scratch, and in research institutes.
Friends,
Nizhny Novgorod is a blend of old time and modern age. Actually, history is always made through development, through people’s talents, dedication and daring.
Now, in the 21st century, Nizhny is one of the country’s key industrial and technological centres which has concentrated both traditional and the most cutting-edge industries and where an international IT cluster is emerging as well as a research and education centre of the world-class level, where new materials, quantum and digital technologies, and smart transport systems are being designed and solutions are being sought for healthcare and environmental protection.
The living environment must meet the demands of future tasks as well. It should be comfortable, modern, opening broad opportunities for initiatives in technology, business, the arts and civic initiatives.
The region’s authorities – and I have just discussed this with the Governor – have far-reaching plans for the city’s development. They include, first of all, a creation of a modern public space in Strelka, building an ice palace, turning the vacant land in the city’s centre into a quarter of high technologies, where over 10,000 high-tech jobs will be created (and those 10,000 will be just a start, a beginning), and a university campus. I am sure that all these facilities will be erected by using advanced materials and architectural and digital solutions.
It also directly concerns the upgrading of the transport system, which is used annually by around half a billion passengers of the entire Nizhny Novgorod agglomeration. It includes, among other things, building transit hubs and metro stations as well as thoroughfares running parallel to Gagarin and Lenin avenues. The region will make full use of our new development mechanism, infrastructure loans, to implement such large-scale and socially important projects. Decisions have already been taken on these issues.
Let me stress that comfortable and safe transport arteries will give an extra boost for the development of the southern and eastern parts of the city, where around 12 million square metres of modern residential space and social facilities – kindergartens, schools, clinics – will be built within the current decade.
We must certainly cherish our great past as we embark on strategic plans and approach the future. A powerful development rate can only be ensured by resting on our roots.
The landmark city centre, the Kremlin and Chkalov stairs were renovated for the city’s anniversary, and the famous city park which we just visited was revamped. Over 30 billion rubles were allocated to that end from all sources. I am sure that this money became an investment both in the preservation of historical heritage and in the new quality of life for Nizhny Novgorod residents and improving the tourist potential.
By the way, I would like to take the opportunity and advise those who so far have been putting on hold a trip to Nizhny to come and visit it by all means. The city has been transformed in the past years and keeps developing. It enchants and charms with its beauty.
Friends,
I believe that Nizhny Novgorod will continue its transformation and confidently move forward into the new century of its history while preserving its identity and uniqueness. It will take pride in technological and scientific breakthroughs, athletic and cultural achievements, the success of business and public projects. They will become an engine that will give a boost to the entire region, its cities and towns. There is certainly a lot of work to be done there but it concerns the development of the entire Volga region and our big country, Russia.
As it always used to be, the present and future of this cosy and yet dynamic city will be made by the hands and talents of the people who study, work, do business, start families and raise children here.
Please accept my congratulations on this remarkable date. I wish you the very best, good health and happiness, and, of course, prosperity to Nizhny Novgorod and to our whole wonderful and huge country of Russia.
Happy holiday! Congratulations!
Geography
Nizhny Novgorod Region
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 21, 2021, 20:35
Text version