Events
Address to participants of Second UN Global Sustainable Transport Conference
October 14, 2021
15:40
Address to participants of Second UN Global Sustainable Transport Conference.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Xi Jinping, Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to thank the PRC President and our Chinese partners for organising the Second UN Global Sustainable Transport Conference. This is the culmination of Secretary-General Guterres’ idea of regularly discussing the development of international transport under UN auspices.
It comes at a critical moment given the importance of effectively adapting the transport sector to handling the constantly growing global demand for goods and services, environmental requirements linked with the transition to clean fuel, and the challenges of combating acts of terrorism, smuggling and transport-related crime in general.
As of late, this work is being complicated by the COVID-19 pandemic and the introduction of tougher safety and health standards. I believe that everyone agrees that the matters regarding international freight and passenger traffic that have been discussed can and should be addressed and resolved only on the basis of cooperation and interaction between all concerned states.
I would like to use this opportunity to inform you that Russia is doing a lot to upgrade and expand its transport infrastructure and to ensure its stability and development. Considering the vast territory of Russia and its challenging climatic conditions, this work calls for a systemic approach and substantial investment. With this in mind, we have adopted an entire series of national programmes for all transport sectors.
For example, we are implementing a major national project to develop and expand motorways. At the same time, we prioritise the overhauling and building of new thoroughfares linking Russia’s major industrial centres and economic agglomerations, including those making it possible to directly link Asian markets with European consumers.
We are upgrading railway infrastructure, including the trans-Siberian and Baikal-Amur mainlines, so as to expand opportunities for container traffic and to increase the overall capacity of Russia’s trans-continental railways.
Russia traditionally devotes special attention to aviation that is often the only link guaranteeing access to remote regions. Therefore, we are doing much to support regional and local air service, primarily for the benefit of the residents of the polar regions and the Far East.
In 2021, we will invest $255 million in aviation and subsidise 417 regional domestic routes. Russia is also upgrading the airfield infrastructure of over 60 airports, including aviation facilities of the Far Eastern Federal District.
I would like to recall that Russia is successfully transporting cargoes along a unique route – the Northern Sea Route. Its role is continuously growing amid the changing climate, the rapid industrial growth of the Asia-Pacific Region and the need to ship goods from East to West and vice versa along the shortest, most cost-effective routes.
We intend to increase freight traffic along the entire 10,500 km Northern Sea Route multiple times over, build infrastructure, including for reliable communications and navigation, and promote port development. We are also working hard to develop the nuclear-powered icebreaking fleet of Russia.
In the process, we are inviting all interested partners, including our Chinese friends, to use more actively the opportunities of the Northern Sea Route for expanding trade transactions with Europe.
I would like to note that Russia is focused on introducing modern digital technology in transport, expanded use of e-services and artificial intelligence, as well as drones and highly automated transport systems. Starting on January 1, 2022, we will introduce a system of electronic shipping documents in automobile transport, which will allow us to save considerable money, reduce costs and ultimately lower the final price of goods.
I consider it our common task to do all we can to make the best use of these new technological opportunities, to benefit people and promote economic growth, international ties and cooperation.
One more acute problem that directly concerns the agenda of this conference has to do with the need to ensure transport safety. Over a million people are killed and tens of millions are injured in traffic accidents alone throughout the world every year.
I would like to recall that Russia initiated the inclusion of this serious topic in the UN agenda. We urge all interested countries to actively participate in the Russia-proposed high-level General Assembly session on road traffic safety in 2022.
In conclusion, I would like to express my confidence that this conference will become an example of true partnership, of open and constructive dialogue, and will make a tangible contribution to ensuring sustainable global development.
I wish the participants success and all the best.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
Transport
UN
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2021, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Third Eurasian Women’s Forum
Vladimir Putin took part in the opening of the third Eurasian Women’s Forum. The main theme of the forum is Women: A Global Mission in a New Reality.
October 14, 2021
12:40
St Petersburg
3 of 4
Vladimir Putin took part in the opening of the third Eurasian Women’s Forum. Photo: RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I am sincerely happy to welcome all of you to St Petersburg and to the third Eurasian Women’s Forum.
As you know, it was held for the first time in 2015, and has confidently gained a place among reputable international platforms, which can be confirmed by the current forum’s representation.
It has brought together women leaders: politicians, entrepreneurs and public activists from over 100 countries, which is incredible in today’s conditions.
The Forum’s cooperation and interaction with such associations as BRICS
, APEC
, UNIDO, and W20 is growing.
The modern dynamically changing world sets new goals for society and states. And, of course, women are playing an increasingly significant role in addressing them. These include sustainable economic development, the global climate agenda, ecology and environment protection, as well as new approaches to education as a process that accompanies people throughout their lives, and the ambition to build it on more fair and balanced principles of the social support system.
Of course, the coronavirus pandemic and overcoming its consequences have also become a global challenge. All over the world, women doctors and medical workers have come to the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, taking on the hardest work. Millions of people, without any exaggeration millions of people all over the world are grateful to them for saving their lives.
Women, with their keen understanding of the value of life, compassion and mercy, have always had a special mission in healthcare. I am confident that it will remain the same in the future, including in determining further actions in the healthcare sector, pharmaceutics, and protection of health in general, with due account of the lessons of the pandemic.
Women’s activities in searching for responses to global and local challenges, as well as their active involvement in all spheres of life serve common interests and help to discover the human potential at its best. Today it seems to be the key factor for progress and advancement, as well as specific changes for the better all over the world: within separate countries and, as I have already said, on the entire planet.
Friends,
Traditional family values are of great importance for our country, for the entire Russian society. Oddly enough, this often causes controversy, and we are even criticised in this regard. Of course, with the absolute need to ensure the freedoms of every person, including the freedom of self-identification, nevertheless, I am still convinced that traditional family values are the most important moral support and a guarantee of successful development both in the present and in the future.
Women have a special role in Russian families. The generosity with which they devote themselves to raising children and caring for their loved ones deserves the sincerest gratitude. But at the same time, I would say Russia traditionally respects the business and professional skills of women. And the fact that they are excellent specialists in various industries, responsible and reliable colleagues does not need any additional proof for our citizens.
Once again: the things that are almost breakthroughs for some countries, accompanied by loud campaigns about the rights and freedoms of women, are a long-standing practice and tradition for our country. And we are proud of such modern features of our society. By the way, we – often deservedly – critically assess the Soviet period of our modern history, but it must be admitted that, largely due to the Soviet period, such an atmosphere has developed in society in relation to women.
In Russia, we can see a widespread presence of women in government bodies and outstanding stories of their business success. They make up the majority in the fast-growing creative industry sector – more than 58 percent, as well as in Russian science, where the share of women is almost 40 percent among researchers.
It is quite obvious that in today’s conditions a woman should not have to choose whether she will devote herself to her children and family or focus on her professional ambitions. We proceed precisely from this understanding. That is why Russia constantly creates all the conditions so that after the birth of a child, a woman can start or resume her professional career at any time, achieve success and develop in the job that she likes.
We have done a lot to increase the availability of kindergartens and nurseries. Of course, we should perhaps do even more to improve this situation. We will carry on because it is important to solve the problem of every family.
Moreover, there are programmes of professional training, and advanced training, which can be accessed by women on maternity leave.
We also support families with children who have financial difficulties. Let me remind you that this year a number of new decisions have been adopted, such as assistance to pregnant women and payments to single parents, which, as a rule, are women, mothers in most cases, and there is no point in pretending otherwise.
Over the last few years, we have significantly readjusted the entire system of payments for families with children, made it more effective and intend to continue this work in order to adopt an entire range of understandable and client-friendly social measures to support families until their children finish school. This help and support from the state will make it possible for women to plan their future more confidently.
Colleagues,
Of course, on the global scale, a lot more should be done for the full implementation of women’s rights, in order to ensure the possibility of their free, non-discriminatory participation in all spheres of life everywhere. Even in economically developed countries – we follow these discussions and see them – even there, imbalance and inequality in career planning and in wages are often recorded. I closely follow these discussions in the so-called developed economies, and there are enough problems there.
The Eurasian Women’s Forum, as a platform for international dialogue, new initiatives, and development of common approaches to global problems, makes the realistic achievement of the goals you discuss at this forum closer. And I am sure that your personal example, the example of leaders, women who enjoy their well-deserved recognition in all spheres, inspire a lot of people in various countries, millions of people without exaggeration.
I wish you success and fruitful work, as well as happiness, health and joy to you and your families.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
Healthcare
Human rights
Labour market
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2021, 12:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
Vladimir Putin took part in the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, via videoconference.
October 14, 2021
15:05
St Petersburg
Also taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan
, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
, President of Kazakhstan Kasym Jomart Tokayev
, President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov
, heads of the EAEU observer states – President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
and President of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez
; Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission Mikhail Myasnikovich, Chairman of the Executive Committee and Executive Secretary of the Commonwealth of Independent States Sergei Lebedev, and Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Development Bank Nikolai Podguzov.
The participants discussed current issues related to the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union, including joint efforts to counteract the spread of the coronavirus and to address the socioeconomic consequences of the pandemic, energy cooperation and the formation of unified oil and gas markets, and collaboration on the climate and environment agenda.
The participants in the meeting approved a series of documents, including a statement On Economic Cooperation between the Member States of the Eurasian Economic Union within the Framework of the Climate Agenda and a resolution On Transitioning to the Second Stage in the Formation of Unified Markets of Oil and Petroleum Products in the Eurasian Economic Union.
* * *
Speech at the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues,
Like all of you, I would like to express satisfaction with the fact that despite certain COVID-related challenges, our integration efforts continue, and continue to deepen. The remarks of our colleagues confirm that all of us are interested in seeing the Eurasian Economic Union make further progress and that we cooperate closely and achieve results in the most diverse areas, primarily trade and the economy.
An important joint project titled Strategic Directions in the Development of Economic Integration to 2025, which we approved at the end of last year, is being implemented successfully.
Economic growth resumed in almost all EAEU economies. In particular, Russia’s GDP grew by 4.8 percent in the first six months of 2021. Industrial output in the entire EAEU increased by 4.4 percent and agricultural output by 0.6 percent.
Mutual trade is doing quite well, with trade between the EAEU members increasing by almost a third (31.9 percent) in January-June, and EAEU foreign trade with third countries up by a quarter.
These numbers were achieved despite the fact that some EAEU member states are being subjected – we are aware of this and spoke about it before – to illegitimate sanctions imposed by some countries. It is no secret that these sanctions are being used not only as a tool of unfair competition, but also as a means to undermine legitimate governments by creating social, economic and political problems or exacerbating existing problems, which any country has in ample supply.
We believe such unfavourable external conditions should drive closer cooperation within our union. The importance of close interaction is becoming even more important as we are getting ready to switch to national currencies and cut the use of the dollar and euro in mutual settlements, to make arrangements for import substitution and development of advanced high-tech industries, and to provide people with food.
Incidentally, Russia has gained vast experience in supporting economic growth under Western restrictions, and we are willing to share it with our EAEU partners.
Implementing major economic projects is easier and faster if done as a collaborative effort. I cannot but agree with our chairman [Kassym-Jomart Tokayev] that there is a shortage of such projects. Of course, we need to look for them and implement them, to introduce innovative technologies and to meet the growing demand for high-quality goods and services and thus effectively resist outside pressure.
In this context, we believe it is important for the EAEU to continue to work systematically to build up cooperation in the manufacturing industry and agriculture and to ensure maximum freedom for the movement of goods, services, capital and labour in order to form a truly full-fledged and steady common market.
Importantly, much has been accomplished in these areas. Recently, the EAEU member states have made significant progress in unifying regulations governing retail trade in goods. A process for harmonising national consumer protection regulations has been launched, and general principles and approaches to ensuring food security have been approved.
A resolution on starting the second phase of forming common EAEU markets for oil and petroleum products was submitted for our approval today.
A joint statement on cooperation in the environmental sphere has also been drafted. This document reflects an understanding of the fundamental importance of combating climate change and preserving the environment for all our states.
The agenda includes stepping up interaction on environmental issues and, in particular, the development of a harmonised climate regulation system so that companies in our countries can be guided by clear and agreed upon rules concerning environmental protection.
Notably, Russia is currently making concerted efforts to reduce its economy’s carbon intensity, to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and to promote green energy. Our proposal is that acting within the EAEU we should start unifying carbon reporting standards, implement mutually beneficial climate projects, and jointly create our own technologies based on the use of carbon-free energy sources including, of course, nuclear energy and hydropower.
Digitalisation is another area of interaction between the EAEU states, which, we believe, deserves special attention. We are also discussing this today. Work in this area is gaining momentum, which, of course, meets the interests of both business circles and the people in our countries, since it makes doing business less complicated and increases mobility and availability of services.
The launch on July 1 of a joint digital project in the Eurasian space, the unified Work without Borders search system is a case in point. This electronic service provides access to information about vacancies and applicant CVs throughout the Eurasian Union.
Digital technologies do much to help adapt our countries’ economies and our lives in general to the circumstances created by the spread of the coronavirus. The mobile app Traveling without COVID-19 developed in Russia helps a lot to restore freedom of movement across the EAEU member states. It is reliable and convenient, and people came to appreciate its value. Our neighbours – Azerbaijan, Moldova, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan – joined this project as well.
Colleagues,
I cannot but note that the ongoing integration of the EAEU is getting the attention of a number of foreign countries, which you have already mentioned.
Importantly, observer states are increasingly involved in EAEU operations. They can participate in the integration bodies’ activities at all levels and get familiar with the process of drafting integration documents and implementing adopted decisions.
A flexible system of relations between the EAEU and other states, as well as integration entities such as the SCO or ASEAN, is being effectively implemented in practice.
In July, a free trade agreement with Serbia came into force, and similar agreements are being negotiated with Egypt and Iran. Talks with India have been given the green light. Research groups are studying the feasibility of creating free trade areas with Indonesia and Mongolia.
All of that is very useful from the point of view of the potential expansion of Eurasian integration and the implementation of the initiative to create a Greater Eurasian Partnership.
Importantly, the more undeniable the EAEU’s real achievements become in the economy, trade and social sphere and, most importantly, in improving the welfare of citizens, the more weight and influence our association obviously will enjoy internationally.
In closing, I would like to express my gratitude to our partners from Kazakhstan, who chaired the EAEU this year and, given the challenging circumstances, have in every possible way helped to further advance integration processes.
Thank you.
Topics
EAEU
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2021, 15:05
Text versionEvents
Interview with CNBC
After the plenary session of the Russian Energy Week forum, Vladimir Putin gave an interview to Hadley Gamble, Anchor at CNBC, an American television network.
October 14, 2021
02:00
Moscow
Hadley Gamble: Mr President, thank you again for having us at the Russian Energy Week.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: The same to you.
Hadley Gamble: Mr President, I want to ask you a little bit more specifically about your succession plans. Every good CEO has one. When you think about this with regard to Russia, do you really want to be president when you are 84 years old?
Vladimir Putin: No, I prefer not to answer questions of this kind. This is what I usually say in response. There is quite some time left before the next election, and discussing this topic has a destabilising effect. We need calm and stability so that all government agencies and structures work in all confidence, and do not worry about the future. It is true that under the Constitution I can do this, and run for another term, but there has been no decision to this effect so far.
Hadley Gamble: Mr President, I want to ask you specifically about the Middle East. You mentioned several times your relationship with Saudi Arabia, of course, via OPEC+. How do you see the region today? Are you worried about what is happening there with the departure of the United States?
See also
Russian Energy Week International Forum plenary session
October 13, 2021
Vladimir Putin: I think that the Middle East is a very promising region of the world. What I currently see both in the United Arab Emirates and in Saudi Arabia is that the leaders of these countries are proactive in their efforts to diversify their economies. They are thinking about the future, and I am certain that they will achieve results because they are steadfast in their commitment.
As for our efforts to stabilise the global energy market, it is true that we have debates that can get quite heated, and each of us defends their positions, but in the end, we always arrive at balanced decisions that are acceptable to all the sides, at least this has been the case so far. Our partners, despite the fact that they are leaders in oil production and sales, are still making plans on green energy. At first glance, this may seem strange, but this is what is really happening. We are discussing with them opportunities for investing heavily in new technologies and energy sources. I think that this is a very promising sphere for future cooperation.
Hadley Gamble: So, Mr Novak
, a few months ago, suggested that we were going to see oil contracts denominated in something other than US dollars. Possibly, in crypto. When do you think that we will see that happen?
Vladimir Putin: Contracts in crypto? This seems premature. Of course, cryptocurrency can be used in settlements, but it is very unstable. It is fine for transferring funds from one place to another, but I think it would be premature to use it in trading, especially when dealing with energy resources. So far cryptocurrency has lacked any backing. It is legitimate and can be used in settlements, no doubt about that, but it is too early to use it for trading in oil or other raw materials and energy sources.
However, things change, and everything has the right to exist. We will see how this will go from here. Maybe crypto will one day be used to store value. But we see how the market fluctuates, so it seems too early for that now.
Hadley Gamble: Does that mean, though, in your view with regards to crypto, people like Elon Musk, the value of what they hold is worthless?
Vladimir Putin: This is not what I said. Of course, there is value there. However, can it be used in settlements when buying and selling oil? This is what I am talking about.
In order to mine crypto, you need a lot of energy, and for that people have to use traditional sources of energy, primarily hydrocarbons.
Hadley Gamble: I know via your Central Bank Governor, our conversation this summer, she essentially said to me that you are moving away from US dollar-denominated assets when it comes to trying to diversify away from the US dollar. Is that so sanctions have less of a bite to the Russian economy?
Vladimir Putin: I think that the United States is making a big mistake when it uses dollars as a sanctions tool. This is what they are actually doing because they make it impossible to pay for products under sanctions with US dollars. Our clients simply cannot pay us in dollars for the products we deliver to them. What happens next? We have no choice other than to switch to other currencies in our settlements. This is the first point I wanted to make.
The second is, when other countries that rely on the dollar as their reserve currency or in settlements see what is going on, they start worrying that the dollar may be used against them in a similar fashion. They also start scaling down their dollar assets and do not use the dollar in their settlements as actively as they used to. As a result, even the closest US partners and allies are reducing the share of the dollar in their reserves, which is a statistical fact.
Of course, we are doing this, by reducing the share of the US dollar in our reserves, as well as in settlements. This is not always possible, but we try to switch to national currencies. In this regard we can say that the United States is cutting the branch it is sitting on, because the status of an international reserve currency is a major competitive advantage, but through their actions they are undermining it, undermining their strategic economic interests for the sake of momentary political gain.
Hadley Gamble: Do you see the US dollar devolving into a currency that is not the world’s reserve currency? Do you believe that could happen?
Vladimir Putin: It is undermining its standing as a global reserve currency. The volume of dollar-denominated settlements is declining, and countries are scaling down their dollar reserves. That said, we are not interested in giving up on dollar settlements altogether. So far, we were quite satisfied with using dollars in settlements for energy resources, primarily oil. However, if the US authorities persist in their policy as I have described it, we will have no other choice. The US will have undermined confidence in the dollar by its own actions.
Besides, the US sovereign debt is growing. Congress has once again increased the sovereign debt ceiling. What does this mean? Money printing. What would be the result? Higher inflation. This is probably the first time inflation in the United States is growing at a speed that has not been seen for quite a while. These are economic reasons that undermine confidence in a currency. Everyone is asking themselves: what next? What will the US economic authorities do with this huge debt? What will they do? Manipulate the dollar and depreciate its value? What will they do with the debt?
These are, of course, fundamental issues, and they do not have anything to do with us. It is up to the Federal Reserve and the US Administration with its economic policy. The United States is the world’s biggest economy, a high-technology one, setting the tone for the global economy in its entirety, and it is our objective interest to avoid any turmoil and major fluctuations, but this does not depend on us.
We are keeping a close eye on these developments, analysing them and taking the necessary steps to ensure our long-term interests.
Hadley Gamble: A question for you on China. President Xi
says you are his best friend. Does it concern you what you are seeing from the United States with regards to the AUKUS agreement? Do you think that that is heightening tension with China creating the potential for a new Cold War?
Vladimir Putin: I also believe that President Xi Jinping is my friend. We have worked together for many years and have achieved good results on both the political and economic tracks. I believe that this benefits the people of China and Russia, and gives more balance and a sense of stability in international affairs.
Creating blocks like the one you have mentioned, formed by the United States, Great Britain and Australia, undermines regional stability. I believe that being friends with someone is a good thing, but being friends against someone is bad. This undermines the stability we have been discussing and that matters so much to us.
What has happened has happened, but I do hope that the situation will not follow some unpredictable scenario and would not create additional tension in the region.
Hadley Gamble: Before we let you go: in terms of your greatest concerns, you mentioned inflation; we now have a prospect of stagflation. We talked about AUKUS, we talked about tension in the South China Sea, and what has happened in Afghanistan. Now we have the gas crisis. A cornucopia of issues facing the world. What is your greatest concern today?
Vladimir Putin: Our greatest concern and the main task is to increase people’s incomes. This is our priority, our number one task, and we are not going to resolve it by simple linear methods. To do this, we must ensure the growth of the economy and a change of its infrastructure. This is a long-term goal. We are not going to use populist methods. It is based on qualitative economic growth that we intend to resolve major social tasks, including an increase in the incomes of the Russian people and the demographic problem, which is our second most important task. It implies a package of social issues: healthcare, education and support for families with children. To resolve all these tasks, we have mapped out certain national development goals. This is a big issue. Therefore, we should resolve the two main problems ‒ improve demography and increase people’s incomes, raise their quality of life on this serious economic foundation I have just mentioned.
This is what we are going to do in the near future.
Hadley Gamble: What about Mr Navalny? Are you interested in improving his quality of life?
Vladimir Putin: The person you mentioned is in a detention facility.
Hadley Gamble: Not great quality of life.
Vladimir Putin: Not the best conditions on earth but he is not alone. Apart from him, other people have also violated Russian laws. We are not going to put anyone in some exclusive conditions, including those that are covering up their dealings with political activities.
I think this answers your question.
Hadley Gamble: Mr President, thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 14, 2021, 02:00
Text version