Events
Meeting with Maria Lvova-Belova
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Maria Lvova-Belova via videoconference. The President signed an executive order on her appointment as Presidential Commissioner for Children’s Rights.
October 27, 2021
18:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Maria Lvova-Belova (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Ms Lvova-Belova.
Maria Lvova-Belova
: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Lvova-Belova, when did you become a member of the Federation Council?
Maria Lvova-Belova: I became a member of the Federation Council from Penza Region a year ago.
See also
Maria Lvova-Belova appointed Commissioner for Children’s Rights
October 27, 2021
Vladimir Putin: Ms Lvova-Belova, you have such a big family. How many children do you have?
Maria Lvova-Belova: Nine children – I gave birth to four and adopted five. Thirteen young people with disabilities are under foster care but they do not live with me. They are part of my assisted living projects.
Vladimir Putin: How do you cope with all this? I am referring to your community tasks as well.
Maria Lvova-Belova: Mothers with many children are used to multitasking.
Vladimir Putin: What among all the things you do and have done do you like most?
Maria Lvova-Belova: Mr President, this is, of course, work with families in hardship, orphans, and young people with disabilities. I like this work and consider it important. I understand that if I have an opportunity to take part in their lives, I am very happy to do this.
Vladimir Putin: Ms Lvova-Belova, you also have broad experience of large-scale public work and, of course, the family upbringing of your own children.
Naturally, the position of a commissioner on children’s rights provides its holder with an opportunity to use all their knowledge, skills and experience to achieve serious, meaningful results for a large number of families and children.
As I understand it, you are ready for this work.
Maria Lvova-Belova: Mr President, I appreciate your trust. It is truly a great honour for me.
I have been involved in protecting children’s rights for 15 years now, which has given me a lot of experience, and it is a personal story for me as well. I understand there will be areas that are new to me, and I will need to get familiar with them, but I am convinced that my track record of working on the ground with socially vulnerable groups, large families and orphans and, of course, my experience in working at the Federation Council under the leadership of Valentina Matviyenko
will help me succeed. Plus, I have a good working relationship with Anna Kuznetsova
.
I think it is crucial to preserve the best practices that have been developed during this time and keep moving forward. It is also important to focus on protecting children’s rights to family, education and health, and to create an equal playing field for all children regardless of their social status, place of residence or health, and to support large families.
So, Mr President, if you allow me, if you trust me with it, I will, of course, take up this job with great pleasure.
I cannot help but share my personal story with you. When I was 15, I was at a hospital with my younger brother. It was the first time I had seen an abandoned baby, it was in the ward next to ours. It was so little, so defenceless lying there on this bare plastic cover. Back then, as I stood next to this box, I vowed that when I grew up, I would do everything I could to make sure that every child in Russia has proper care, support and the attention of the adults. And I believe that this is the mission of the Commissioner for Children’s Rights.
Vladimir Putin: There is much to do here, and this is a noble cause, so I wish you every success from the bottom of my heart.
Maria Lvova-Belova: Thank you, Mr President.
I would like to ask for a meeting with you two months from now. I would like to delve into this work now, and in two months I will be able to discuss my vision and my goals for the near future in more detail.
Vladimir Putin: All right, this is what we will do.
Good luck.
Maria Lvova-Belova: Thank you very much.
Topics
Children
Persons
Lvova-Belova Maria
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 27, 2021, 18:10
Text versionEvents
East Asia Summit
The President addressed, via videoconference, the 16th East Asia Summit.
October 27, 2021
15:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
At the 16th East Asia Summit (via videoconference).
The 2021 East Asia Summit was held under the chairmanship of Brunei Darussalam. The participants discussed the economic recovery of the Asia-Pacific Region and overcoming the consequences of the coronavirus pandemic.
At the end of the session, the participants approved a package of documents.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Majesty, colleagues,
I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to His Majesty Sultan of Brunei Darussalam for organising this event.
See also
East Asia Summit Leaders’ Statement on Economic Growth through Tourism Recovery
October 27, 2021
East Asia Summit Leaders’ Statement on Mental Health Cooperation
October 27, 2021
East Asia Summit Leaders’ Statement on Sustainable Recovery
October 27, 2021
The East Asia Summits provide a good opportunity to discuss the situation in the Asia-Pacific Region, map out possible solutions to the most challenging problems and coordinate measures to maintain peace and stability and to strengthen mutually beneficial multilateral cooperation.
Our common region has indeed become one of the most dynamic global centres of political, business and investment activity. At the same time, it is facing serious challenges and threats in terms of security, and economic and social development, which have been augmented by the coronavirus during the past two years.
Therefore, it is quite logical that this summit is focusing on the struggle against the pandemic and efforts to overcome its consequences, as well as the implementation of the joint Statement on Strengthening Collective Capacity in Epidemics Prevention and Response, which was adopted at Russia’s initiative. In this context, we are certainly ready to exchange experience with interested countries on the practical aspects of combatting infectious diseases.
We could also expand the training programme for epidemiologists from ASEAN
states at the Vladivostok Research Centre of Biosecurity in the Asia-Pacific region. In November and December, we will hold a new series of relevant advanced training courses on that platform, which representatives of the regional countries are welcome to attend.
Additional
Russia-ASEAN Summit
October 28, 2021
I would like to note that Russia is seeking to make a real contribution to efforts aimed at ensuring free and non-discriminatory access to vaccines against COVID-19 for citizens of all states. We are in favour of developing a procedure involving reciprocal recognition of vaccination certificates, without which it is practically impossible to support the unrestricted movement of citizens of our countries across the region.
The use of Russian vaccines, primarily Sputnik V, has been approved by 70 countries, and they are supplied to more than 50. We are grateful to many partners in the Asia-Pacific Region for our joint work to localise the production of vaccines. We will continue to provide Russian test kits and reagents needed for diagnosing COVID-19, including free of charge.
Protecting mental health and rendering psychological support is of particular importance against the background of the pandemic and related tough restrictions, including the need to stay at home or go into self-isolation. For this reason, we certainly support the initiative of the Brunei chairmanship to approve a separate thematic statement following today’s meeting.
In general, we suggest that a regional mechanism for anti-pandemic collaboration be established under the aegis of the East Asia Summits, and we will shortly submit specific considerations on this score via the expert channels.
Colleagues,
We believe it is quite important for the states in this region to engage in the further strengthening of trade and economic ties, the more so that business activity is gradually recovering. Russia, for one, has managed to reach the pre-crisis level, with GDP growth amounting to 3.7 percent on August 2020.
During the first eight months of 2021, Russia’s trade with countries participating in the East Asia Summits grew by more than 34 percent to $162 billion. The states present here account for $18.5 billion in direct accumulated investment into the Russian economy, which is more than a twofold increase over five years.
We should support the incipient economic recovery by taking additional measures to stimulate the backbone industries of our economies and by seeking further coordination of efforts in this area.
We believe that tourism deserves special attention. It is one of the sectors that have been hardest hit by COVID-19. Meanwhile, for some countries that are taking part in this summit, tourism is the main provider of jobs: before the pandemic, it generated about 10 or more percent of their incomes.
In view of this, Russia has suggested adopting a joint statement in support of the tourist industry, following today’s discussion. There is also a specific initiative – to organise a meeting of the heads of relevant departments as early as next January, on the sidelines of the ASEAN Tourist Forum in Cambodia, and then to make such contacts regular.
No less urgent are the tasks of stepping up growth in other branches of the economy, including industry, power engineering and finances. With these goals in view, we would consider it useful to prepare and submit for approval by the leaders next year a roadmap of cooperation between the participants in East Asia Summits on the entire range of economic issues.
We also support a proposal on adopting a statement on sustainable recovery, based on the outcome of our summit. The priorities mentioned in it, such as efforts to counter climate change, encourage innovation in decarbonisation and develop technology and sectors with low emission levels, require smooth, concerted cooperation from all of us.
And, of course, we are interested in the closest cooperation on digitisation with the participants in the East Asia Summits. Digital technology is very helpful in resolving the comprehensive goal of strengthening coherence in the region, developing its infrastructure and trade, and creating transport-and-logistics corridors.
We hope for positive results from the project on innovation for the smart and sustainable cities of Russia and ASEAN. We are launching it as part of our partnership dialogue with the association. Our capital, Moscow, which is among the world’s top seven smart cities, will play a most active role in this project.
Finally, I would be remiss not to mention that along with the need to overcome all of the above pressing challenges in healthcare as well as on the social track and in the economy in general, it is important not to relax our joint efforts to maintain regional stability and security. This is all the more relevant given the fact that the number of challenges and threats in the Asia-Pacific region is not decreasing, but growing with old conflicts being exacerbated and new ones emerging.
In particular, we have repeatedly noted that with the termination of the INF Treaty, the region is facing the possibility of assault weapons being deployed in its vast territory, and accordingly, the prospect for a new round of the arms race.
Realising the danger of such a turn of events, Russia, as you are aware, has announced a unilateral moratorium on the deployment of intermediate and short-range missiles in the APR and other regions and called for a serious discussion on this subject with all stakeholders. Russia’s proposal remains in force and has even become more relevant.
To reiterate, Russia has consistently advocated forming a system of equal and indivisible security in the APR and strengthening the atmosphere of constructive cooperation based on international law, including respect for the sovereignty, equality and consideration of each other's interests.
We believe this is the only way to cut short existing and emerging threats and to address pressing issues facing our region and the international community, as well as to effectively interact in the interests of sustainable development and improving people’s well-being.
Russia will continue to contribute to this joint work.
Thank you.
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 27, 2021, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on developing Yamal Peninsula resource potential
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, on developing the resource potential of the Yamal Peninsula.
October 27, 2021
18:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting on developing Yamal Peninsula resource potential (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Chairman of the Gazprom Board Alexei Miller
, and Chairman of the NOVATEK Board Leonid Mikhelson.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, we will review a number of advanced projects for the development of the Russian fuel-and-energy sector and the gas segment.
We regularly hold these discussions and this is very important, especially against the backdrop of the current developments in the world energy market. As you know, the situation remains very unstable.
Primarily, I am referring to the European natural gas market where prices on so-called spot, short-term contracts exceed a thousand dollars per thousand cubic metres, while the gas reserves in European underground storage are significantly below average for the past five years.
We have discussed the reasons for this situation, and I have spoken about it too. It is due to a reduction in Europe’s own gas production, and cuts in LNG supplies to European markets, primarily from the United States. They have removed a substantial amount of gas from European markets. Incidentally, Gazprom made up for this and even supplied more gas.
It is important to maintain sustainable, reliable energy cooperation. Gazprom is carrying out its long-term agreements with the European countries in full.
Mr Miller, when do you plan to complete filling up the Russian underground gas storage facilities?
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller: Mr President, we plan to finish pumping gas into the underground storage facilities by November 1. The target is 72.6 billion cubic metres of gas.
However, given that you have made a decision on days off, during which there will definitely be a decrease in consumption on the domestic market, we believe that it is advisable to continue to pump this weekend. This will allow us to reliably increase gas distribution to our consumers in the winter.
Our pumping this year was carried out in a very intensive manner. The previous winter was cold and the spring was also fairly cool for a long time, and Gazprom set an all-time high in the volume of natural gas extracted from its underground storage facilities: we took out 10 billion cubic metres more, 60 billion cubic metres, in all. So, we pumped gas into our underground storage facilities this summer, and then in September and October in a very intensive manner.
But Europe also set a record in withdrawing gas from its underground storage facilities at 66 billion cubic metres of gas. Unlike us today, Mr President, as you noted, they are significantly behind the level they have had over the past five years.
Vladimir Putin: When do you plan to finish pumping to our underground storage facilities?
Alexei Miller: Mr President, on November 8. We will achieve the target indicator of 72.6 billion cubic metres by November 1, and will fully complete the pumping on November 8.
Vladimir Putin: To my knowledge, Gazprom also owns underground gas storage facilities in Europe.
Alexei Miller: Yes, Mr President, we have underground storage facilities in Europe, including Austria and Germany.
Vladimir Putin: What is the state of pumping into these UGS facilities?
Alexei Miller: At present, the volume of gas in these underground storage facilities is insignificant, literally very, very low, a little under 190,000 cubic metres of gas.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Miller, all right, after you complete the pumping of gas into Russia’s underground storage facilities by or on November 8, I would like you to start consistent and planned work on increasing the amount of gas in your underground depots in Europe – in Austria and Germany.
As we both understand, this will make it possible to fulfil our contractual commitments in a reliable, stable and consistent manner and to supply our European partners with gas in the autumn and winter. In addition, this will create a favourable situation, at any rate, a better situation in the European energy market in general.
Alexei Miller: Mr President, this is what we will do. As soon as we complete pumping gas into the underground storage tanks in the Russian Federation, we will start pumping Gazprom gas into the underground storage facilities in Europe. There is no doubt that, as you said, this will make gas supplies more reliable and stable in the autumn and winter.
Vladimir Putin Fine, do this, and keep me informed on your progress.
The main goal for us is to fully supply gas at stable prices to our domestic customers – to individuals, the housing and utilities sector, industry and other sectors. These supplies must be planned for the long-term perspective, with due account of our ambitious plans to provide the regions with gas – this is also important, this is also one of our priorities.
To ensure stable gas supplies both inside the country and to our foreign partners, the Russian fuel-and-energy complex is carrying out long-term development plans, putting into operation new fields and creating gas provinces, and we are doing all this in a timely manner.
As I said in the beginning, today we will review these projects, including those on further developing the resources on the Yamal Peninsula.
Importantly, the Yamal gas production centre is playing a key role in developing Russia’s gas industry in the 21st century. Gas reserves, Gazprom’s gas reserves alone exceed 20 trillion cubic metres. The total gas reserves in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area are over 50 trillion cubic metres.
Large-scale projects are being successfully implemented on the Yamal Peninsula; the largest field, Bovanenkovskoye, is being developed. Gas will be produced here for many decades, for 100 years, perhaps even longer.
Unique technical solutions are being tested in the harsh Arctic conditions – unique for Russia and the international gas industry alike. The efficiency of the technologies has been proven by the commissioning of new wells and the Bovanenkovo-Ukhta-2 gas pipeline.
In addition, with the participation of our foreign partners, projects for LNG production have been launched in Yamal. The Yamal LNG plant with a capacity of 19 million tonnes per year is operational; the Arctic LNG-2, which will annually produce almost 20 million tonnes of LNG, is under construction. The Arctic port of Sabetta has been built from scratch to service these centres.
These and other projects to develop the Russian Arctic will make it possible to meet demand on the domestic and international markets for the long run, and will make a large contribution to ensuring Eurasian energy security.
Here I want to emphasise one very important thing. Prices on global energy markets are high, and it is necessary to take advantage of this fact as much as possible not only for expanding the industry, but also for developing the production regions and creating new jobs and high-tech companies.
So, along with investment in developing the fields, it is necessary to concentrate on building centres for deep processing of raw materials in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area.
It is important to invest in infrastructure, including transport, including such large and significant projects as the Northern Latitudinal Railway, railway accesses to the port of Sabetta, and further development of the Northern Sea Route.
I am now addressing not only the management of Gazprom and NOVATEK who are present here, but other production companies as well: you must get more involved in this work and invest in infrastructure in the common interests of developing Yamal.
To reiterate, this will create the foundation for the confident, high-quality, and long-term development of this strategically important region of Russia.
Let us begin our discussion.
Mr Novak, you have the floor.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Regions
Persons
Miller Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 27, 2021, 18:40
Text version