Events
Framework agreement signed between trade union associations, employers, and the Government for 2021–2023
The President attended, via videoconference, a ceremony of signing a General Agreement between Russian trade union associations, Russian employers’ associations, and the Government for 2021–2023.
March 31, 2021
14:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
A ceremony of signing a General Agreement between Russian trade union associations, Russian employers’ associations, and the Government for 2021–2023 (via videoconference).
Chairman of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Russia Mikhail Shmakov
, President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Alexander Shokhin
and Minister of Labour and Social Protection Anton Kotyakov
signed the Agreement. The ceremony was also attended by Deputy Prime Minister and Coordinator of the Russian Trilateral Commission on Regulating Social and Labour Relations Tatyana Golikova
.
The agreement formalises at the federal level the principles of regulating social, labour and associated economic relations between trade unions, employers and the executive branch for the next three years.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues, friends.
I would like to welcome all the participants in this signing ceremony for the 14th General Agreement between trade unions, employers’ associations and the Government.
Indeed, this is a document of great social significance. The Agreement concerns the interests of more than 70 million Russian citizens employed in different sectors of the economy and the social sector. We must continue this partnership in order to fully protect and guarantee the labour and employment rights of our people.
I would like to take this opportunity to praise the constructive help that the Russian Trilateral Commission provided to the Government during the epidemic, including the Commission’s involvement in developing crisis response measures to support our citizens, small businesses and the most affected industries in general.
Certainly, the leaders of trade unions and representatives of the business community, the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, have done a lot to ensure workforce retention, and this was our main task. They have also worked hard to help people and medical personnel. Thank you very much for all this.
Indeed, you have proved your commitment to the values of social partnership in an extraordinary situation. I am confident that such mutual understanding will serve as a solid foundation for addressing joint tasks in the interests of the country’s citizens.
I would like to focus on the main aspects here. First, we have to restore the labour market to 2019 levels. We are constantly discussing this matter with the Government, and the task can primarily be accomplished through expanded business activity, by investing extra assets in jobs and through investment.
Several weeks ago, we met with representatives of the national business community. I would like to underscore the fact that our colleagues have the desire, as well as substantial resources, to invest in new projects.
I would also like to add that the state will support entrepreneurs who provide employment to people who lost their jobs last year. To be more exact, the state will reimburse part of the cost of the wages of these workers. Their employers will get three minimum wages per worker over a period of six months.
At the same time, it is necessary to use all available tools, including remote work mechanisms in order to create jobs and thereby allowing people, regardless of their age, place of residence or health restrictions, to earn money and to obtain worthy incomes, and their labour rights should also be reliably protected.
On the whole, all the decisions have already been made, and we have to fulfil them and monitor their implementation.
Secondly, I suggest studying the possibility of expanding easy-term treatment and rehabilitation programmes for workers at trade-union and corporate health resorts and holiday hotels. The trade unions retain a large chain of these institutions. First of all – I believe you will agree with me – these vouchers should be issued to people who had severe cases of COVID-19, who have suffered from major complications. We simply have to support these people under a special procedure.
On the whole, I am asking you to focus on improving employees’ health, and this certainly includes preventive checkups and support for mass sport.
Third, it is necessary to step up joint efforts by domestic companies, the trade unions, and WorldSkills so that people have access to retraining programmes that would help people acquire additional skills or a new specialty, allowing them to use the advantages of technological progress to broaden their professional and career prospects.
For our part, this year we will certainly help the most vulnerable in the labour market to upgrade their skills. These are mothers with small children, pre-pensioners and people with disabilities.
I would like to make a special point. Everything that we are doing together – taking care of the health of our people, creating jobs, and providing retraining opportunities – is subordinate to the main goal: to ensure that people live a better life, earn more and improve their wellbeing.
Let me recall that we have halved the fiscal load on medium and small companies. This decision – let me say it again – is long-term and we are not going to abandon it. Naturally, we hope for reciprocal steps on behalf of businesses. Mr Shokhin, we expect businesses to meet us halfway, notably, that the resources thus saved will be used to increase wages and salaries for employees.
But, of course, I would like to emphasise that we must strive to increase people’s real incomes, and this directly depends on an economic upsurge and the observance of macroeconomic parameters. We will expand opportunities for business initiatives and the sustainable growth of industries and enterprises and practically resolve the issues of labour relations. The Russian Trilateral Commission must take part in drafting specific steps and measures to support workers.
This is what I would like to say in conclusion. Respect for the working people, social partnership and economic solidarity are the main principles that we introduced into the updated Constitution. It is necessary to make these constitutional provisions work in every region, branch, city and in specific teams of workers and at plants and factories.
The Government, trade unions and employers must work as closely together as possible, as true partners.
Colleagues, I would like to congratulate you on today’s event and wish you this kind of coherent work. Needless to say, in the current conditions it would be appropriate to wish you excellent health and wellbeing.
Let us proceed to the ceremony. Go ahead, please. 
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Indeed, social partnership is extremely important for all of us, including the business community, trade unions and, all the more so, for the Government because this social partnership hinges on common goals, the target of which is to achieve well-being for the citizens of this country. Yes, of course, businesses aim to obtain profits, at first glance. But a normal and modern person, a present-day entrepreneur realises that the unimpeded extraction of profits, this naked, wild and wooly capitalism is absolutely unacceptable because this eventually leads to the destruction of society, the state and businesses themselves, unless business people care for the people, the workers. This is like an auto-da-fé, like shooting oneself in the leg or the head.
By the way, the same goes for the trade unions because absolutely groundless demands, based on outright populism alone, also lead to the destruction of enterprises and businesses that create jobs. Of course, these demands should be based on expert assessments. Despite the somewhat fierce debate, and I know only too well that there was some rather fierce debate, and although trade unions voice different and sufficiently tough positions, while defending the interests of the working people during this work, everyone is eventually guided by expert assessments, and this concerns the Government, in the first place.
Consequently, this amounts to really difficult and large-scale efforts, and such a job has been completed today. I would like to thank you for this and to congratulate you on this occasion. This is a serious stage in our common efforts to expand the economy and the country’s social sector.
Thank you.
Topics
Trade unions
Persons
Golikova Tatyana
Kotyakov Anton
Shmakov Mikhail
Shokhin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 31, 2021, 14:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
The President held a meeting with Government members via videoconference. The main item on the agenda was funding programmes for the development of the regions.
March 31, 2021
16:50
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 2
During a meeting with Government members (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Chief of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Chief of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
, Deputy Prime Ministers Viktoria Abramchenko
, Tatyana Golikova
, Alexander Novak
, Alexei Overchuk
, Marat Khusnullin
and Dmitry Chernyshenko
, Deputy Prime Minister and Chief of the Government Executive Office Dmitry Grigorenko
, Deputy Prime Minister and Plenipotentiary Presidential Representative in the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
, Presidential Aides Maxim Oreshkin
and Igor Levitin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
, Emergencies Minister Yevgeny Zinichev
, Minister of Natural Resources and the Environment Alexander Kozlov
, Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Minister of Construction, Housing and Utilities Irek Faizullin
, Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Maksut Shadayev
, Plenipotentiary Presidential Representative in the Urals Federal District Vladimir Yakushev
, Head of the Federal Customs Service Vladimir Bulavin
and a number of regional governors.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues. I am happy to see you all.
Before we start working, I would like to mention one current issue – I asked you to study the problem of the Bashkir soda company.
As you are aware, in accordance with a court verdict, about 96 percent of its shares have become property of the Russian Federation. It is vital to ensure the long-term, effective operation of this company and the production of competitive products. Needless to say, this is always very important but today even more than ever. This will keep people in paid jobs.
Competent corporate management is one of the things that matters most here. Decisions to this end have been made. I want the Government to transfer 38.3 percent of the shares of the Bashkir Soda Company to the Republic of Bashkortostan. As a matter of fact, this is what Bashkortostan has always owned. In addition, as agreed with the leaders of the republic, among others, I want another 11.7 percent plus one share transferred to trust companies that are fully controlled by the government of the republic meaning that the local authorities will manage this company in full. At the same time, almost 57.7 percent of the shares will remain federally owned, and the controlling stock will, as I said, be owned by the republic.
In addition, I want you to execute a special agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Bashkortostan to define specific plans and key performance indicators for the Bashkir Soda Company, including output and investment figures. We will need to watch how the company is managed and provide oversight mechanisms to monitor the use of state property.
Mr Mishustin, we have discussed this subject many times, so please see it through to the end.
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin: I will, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. I hope that Bashkortostan’s leaders will do their part with regard to the tasks facing this company.
Let us move on to our main item, unless, of course, the head of the Republic of Bashkortostan wants to say or add something to the above.
Head of the Republic of Bashkortostan Radiy Khabirov: Mr President, just a couple of words, if I may.
Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues,
I want to thank you for this decision. For many years, soda production privatisation has been a sensitive issue for the people in Bashkortostan, and they feel grateful for this decision.
We understand the level of responsibility and the role and importance of this enterprise for the national and local economies, so we will see to it that the company expands and is upgraded as necessary.
Thank you so much for your trust again.
Vladimir Putin: Look, the controlling stock in the company changed hands not through a fault of the federal authorities, but in connection with the decisions of the republic's leaders. There is nothing wrong with privatisation, but it must be in line with the goals. The company must work effectively and comply with a certain code of conduct.
Therefore, I look forward to these efforts continuing into the future. I also hope that the company will be properly managed. The company’s economic activities must be properly ensured, including resources, this should also be kept in mind.
Radiy Khabirov: I understand, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, the resources must be there.
Good. Let us move on to the main item.
However, before that, we need to briefly discuss a number of issues at hand. The level of preparedness for the flooding and wildfire season is among the most important ones.
(Minister of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Yevgeny Zinichev and Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Alexander Kozlov delivered reports on readiness for the flood and wildfire season in the regions.
Deputy Prime Minister Viktoria Abramchenko briefed the President on the work to decriminalise the forestry industry.
Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Maksut Shadayev spoke about the preinstallation of popular Russian-made apps on electronic devices sold in Russia starting April 1, 2021).
Vladimir Putin: Let us proceed to the main issue on today’s agenda. I would also like to focus on regional finances. We closely monitor this subject, but we still need to talk about it in detail and discuss the state of regional budgets and what steps are necessary to improve their financial stability. In this regard, I want to emphasise that financial standing is one of the key conditions for the long-term social and economic development of all territories of our big country.
I would like to note that you closely monitor the financial situation in Russian regions. In recent times, as I have already said, a series of measures has been implemented to support the regions and provide them with the necessary assistance. First of all, I am speaking about the decisions made amid the pandemic. Let me remind you that last year, we allocated 280 billion rubles in direct subsidies and another 223 billion rubles in special budgetary loans.
Another thing I would like to mention. The Russian economy is only beginning to recover, as we all know. Not all regions have posted steady growth of business activity; therefore, the revenue base in many regions is still unstable.
In this regard, I want to hear the governors’ analysis of the regions’ financial health and your proposals on what new decisions are required not only to ensure the stability of regional finances, but also to boost the economic growth rate. Our goal is to pave the way for the sustainable development of each Russian region.
Let me remind you that the Government has already been instructed to develop a draft programme of infrastructure development in the regions and ensure its funding.
(Chelyabinsk Region Governor Alexei Teksler, Acting Head of the Republic of Mordovia Artem Zdunov, Nizhny Novgorod Region Governor Gleb Nikitin and Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin delivered reports on the main issue. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov and Economic Development Minister Maxim Reshetnikov took part in the discussion).
Vladimir Putin: Let us summarise our discussion.
Overall, I support these approaches – I certainly know what this discussion is about and along what parameters the restructuring is to be carried out. I will not talk about it at this point. I understand that 20 percent on the revenue side sounds like the right figure, and I would like to continue working along these lines.
I would like to make several points. First, concerning the balancing of regional budgets in the Russian Federation. Last year, Mr Siluanov was directly involved in this work the whole time. I have just mentioned this in passing: the Finance Ministry has launched additional mechanisms for supporting regional finances and this approach has been successful overall.
I am sure that this year the Finance Ministry will also come up with the necessary instruments and carry out the required measures, as the Minister has just said.
That said, normalising the budget policy in the regions must be carried out step by step, just as we have planned for the federal budget. I would like to ask you to consider this in determining the amounts of additional support. However, the Finance Ministry must continuously monitor the situation to keep people from saying: Oh! What is happening here? And, where have you been looking? I understand it is impossible to control every sneeze and every comma, but after all, you see what is happening and must react promptly. There is a mechanism for this.
Second. As I said, we are consistently working to improve the regional finances, and this is what we are doing today, too. One of the main steps here is restructuring commercial debt, which is what we are discussing today. As a rule, such loans are expensive and short-term – I think our colleague from Mordovia spoke about this – and are fairly burdensome for the regions.
We need to finalise the parameters of such restructuring, make it as fair as possible and do it soon, without putting it off indefinitely.
Third. Now that the economy and the revenue base of the regions is recovering it is very important to give the regions additional opportunities and instruments for developing their infrastructure and help them form a foundation for future economic growth.
Mr Khusnullin told us about the principles of such a national programme. I certainly support them. I would like to emphasise that both the Finance Ministry and the relevant departments must strictly control the implementation of this programme. Loans taken out to develop the infrastructure must not be used to cover current expenses. In the meantime, we are hardly controlling them.
In conclusion, I would like to remind you about the preparations for the Address to the Federal Assembly. Colleagues, in this context I would like to ask you to determine within two weeks the parameters of additional financial support for the regions this year so I can refer to them in the Address. I would also like to ask you to prepare specific proposals on restructuring their commercial debt and launching the programme for regional infrastructure development.
I would like to thank all of you for our joint efforts.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Budget
Economy and finance
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 31, 2021, 16:50
Text version