Events
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov
Vladimir Putin received President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov at the Bocharov Ruchei residence. The President of Kyrgyzstan is in Sochi on a working visit at the invitation of the President of Russia.
May 24, 2021
14:15
Sochi
1 of 2
With President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov.
The two leaders discussed the development of bilateral interaction, including within the integration associations in the Eurasian space. They also exchanged views on current regional issues, including improving stability on the Kyrgyz-Tajik border.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am very happy to see you.
Next year will mark the 30th anniversary of our fundamental agreement on friendship and cooperation. But we already can say that our interstate relations have been successfully improving and developing over these years.
Suffice it to say that Russia is Kyrgyzstan’s biggest trade partner. Unfortunately, last year, mutual trade declined due to the pandemic. But in the first quarter of 2021 we are witnessing a 6 percent increase, which is a positive trend and we need to maintain it, also by using the intergovernmental commission which is working rather actively, as far as I know.
We also cooperate in countering the pandemic. Russia has been assisting and will continue to assist Kyrgyzstan by sending test systems, antiviral drugs and vaccines. Our experts are currently considering launching production in Kyrgyzstan to manufacture our Sputnik V vaccine, which is now world famous.
Last year, we planned to hold the Year of Russia in Kyrgyzstan and the Year of Kyrgyzstan in Russia. Plans called for holding over 200 events, including youth exchanges, inter-university contacts, and plenty more. Unfortunately, the pandemic disrupted these plans, but we will definitely go through with them a soon as the epidemiological situation improves both in Russia and Kyrgyzstan.
We are cooperating quite actively in international organisations, particularly, the EAEU
(quite recently we took part in an online meeting of its leaders and observers), the CSTO
, and some other organisations, including global ones like the United Nations.
And, of course, Mr President, we were watching attentively and with great concern what was happening on the Tajik-Kyrgyz border. As you are aware, the President of Tajikistan visited us not so long ago. Of course, we discussed this matter with him. We had a positive response to the intention of both sides to resolve all similar disputable questions through negotiations. I am sure that this goal can be reached exactly in this way.
We will do everything that depends on us to help you resolve these issues. We realise that this is linked with the life of specific people primarily in Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan – they [the states] are thinking about their people. It is necessary to find a long-term solution to the problem that would meet the interests of both sides. We will be striving for this and do everything to help.
I really am delighted to see you in Russia. Welcome.
President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov
: Thank you.
Mr President, I am pleased to see you again. We appreciate your invitation.
We met in Moscow exactly three months ago and now we have a good opportunity to review the results of our bilateral cooperation.
Mr President, I would like to express my personal gratitude for your attention and your compassion over the events on the Kyrgyz-Tajik border. I would like to make a special mention of the support you rendered to the people of Kyrgyzstan.
Russia is our main ally and trade and economic partner. So I hope for constructive talks on all issues today.
Thank you once again for your invitation and warm reception.
<…>
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Japarov Sadyr
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 24, 2021, 14:15
Text version