Events
Meeting with Tula Region Governor Alexei Dyumin
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, with Governor of the Tula Region Alexei Dyumin.
September 14, 2021
18:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 4
Participants in the meeting with Tula Region Governor Alexei Dyumin.
The conversation, which included Tula Region residents, focused on the development of healthcare and education. The President was told about a new building at the Tula Regional Perinatal Centre, which is scheduled to open in early 2022, and a new and modern regional oncological centre. Teachers and students of the Leo Tolstoy Education Complex in Yasnaya Polyana took part in the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Dyumin, friends,
Mr Dyumin, you and I have agreed to talk about the development of the region today, the development of the Tula Region.
I see that you propose having a somewhat unusual meeting with a regional head: you have invited your colleagues from various sectors.
I think this is very good and timely, and I hope it will be interesting to listen not only to the Governor of the Tula Region but also to the people working in vital activity areas, who have direct contact with and feedback from the people.
Let’s begin. The topic is a common one: the socioeconomic situation and plans for the development of the Tula Region.
* * *
Speaking on the socio-economic situation in the region, Tula Region Governor Alexei Dyumin told the President about the reconstruction of Tula’s historical centre. As part of the national project on creating a comfortable urban environment, the region has improved 1,300 site, 1,165 courtyards and 111 public spaces. Twenty-two parks and 22 squares have received a new lease of life. Eleven historical townships received large-scale reconstruction. People are being relocated from dilapidated housing; about 1,500 residents have received new flats. Over 3,500 people will receive new housing before the end of 2023. The housing programme is being funded by the federal and regional governments.
According to the Governor, over 700 billion rubles have been attracted to the Tula Region since 2016. The region is carrying out over 60 large investment projects. The defence, chemical and metals industries have been and remain the foundation of the region’s economy. Mr Dyumin recalled that Russia’s biggest chemical companies are located in the compact Tula Region, Shchekinoazot, for example. This company is implementing many new investment projects. Upon their completion, it will become the leader in methanol production in Russia and Europe.
The Governor also spoke about environmental protection. The region is upgrading manufacturing while using eco-friendly methods, building water treatment facilities, and creating a large monitoring system throughout its territory. In signing agreements on new investment projects, it adheres to environmental standards as one of the main terms in the agreement.
Mr Dyumin also noted that there are some issues that require support from the President and financial assistance from the federal centre. These issues are briefly outlined in a letter to the President, and include the environment, road infrastructure, improvement of the healthcare system, and the further development of the successful special economic zone. The Governor asked the President to review and support these programmes, if possible.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Indeed, one of the issues you mentioned has traditionally been an urgent one. Unfortunately, this situation has become traditional over decades; I am referring to dilapidated housing. This is probably the most pressing issue in the country’s central regions. It must be resolved systematically, so we will work on it together.
As for the other issues, Tula’s Eastern Bypass, water treatment facilities, ambulances, and the special economic zone, I have all the documents on them and they will certainly be sent to the Government with the relevant resolutions. You know how to do this – to work with the Government, so I hope this will be completed. You understand that it is simply necessary to study each document at the relevant department.
Thank you for organizing today’s meeting in such an informal atmosphere. I was very pleased to see and talk to the people who deal with specific major areas of activity and to understand their attitude to what is really taking place locally.
Thank you very much.
Good luck to you, I wish you all the best.
Geography
Tula Region
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Social services
Persons
Dyumin Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 14, 2021, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Syria Bashar al-Assad
Yesterday Vladimir Putin had a meeting at the Kremlin with President of the Syrian Arab Republic Bashar al-Assad, who is currently in Russia on a visit.
September 14, 2021
07:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
With President of the Syrian Arab Republic Bashar al-Assad.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am glad to once again welcome you to Moscow. First of all, please accept my best wishes on your recent birthday.
President of the Syrian Arab Republic Bashar al-Assad
(in Russian): Spasibo.
Vladimir Putin: And of course, on a personal note, congratulations on your solid performance in the presidential election. The result shows that you enjoy popular trust despite all the challenges and tragedies of the past years, which means that it is you that people view as the driver of recovery and a return to normal life.
I know that you are doing a great deal along these lines, including efforts to establish a dialogue with your political opponents. I really hope that this process continues. It is only by consolidating all the forces in Syria that the country can rebound and generate positive momentum in its development.
Much has been done to this effect. By working together, we have liberated most of the territory of the Syrian Republic, dealing the terrorists a heavy, damaging blow. The Syrian government now controls 90 percent of the country’s territory.
I believe that the main problem lies in the presence in some parts of the country of foreign armed forces without any mandate from the United Nations or your permission, which clearly runs counter to international law and undermines your ability to use your best efforts to consolidate the country and promote recovery at a pace that would have been possible, if the legitimate government controlled the entire country.
Regrettably, there are still some pockets of resistance, where the terrorists not only control part of the territory but also continue to terrorise peaceful civilians. Nevertheless, refugees are actively returning to the liberated areas. I actually saw during my visit, which I made at your invitation, that people are working hard to rebuild their houses and resume a peaceful life in every sense of the word.
Our joint efforts are producing a result. I am talking now not only about Russia’s humanitarian assistance to the Syrian people, but also about the development of our trade and economic ties. During the first six months of this year, our trade increased by 250 percent.
We are also working together to deal with the biggest problem humankind has come across – the battle against the coronavirus infection. The first batches of Sputnik V and Sputnik Light have been delivered to Syria. I hope that our joint efforts will help the Syrian people get back on their feet in every sense of the word, will help them restore the economy, the social sphere and healthcare, first of all as regards the current challenges.
Mr President, I am very glad to see you. Welcome.
President of the Syrian Arab Republic Bashar al-Assad (retranslated): Mr President, thank you very much.
It is a great honour for me to be in Moscow today, to meet with you and to discuss the issues that have to do with our common tasks, towards which we have been working and, while doing so, have attained positive results in the fight against international terrorism.
Our two armies, the Russian and Syrian armed forces, have been striving for and have achieved considerable results not only in the liberation of the territories occupied by the militants and in wiping away terrorism, but they have also facilitated the return of the refugees, who had to flee from their homes and their country.
Since international terrorism knows no borders and is spreading around the world like a virus, I can testify that our two armies have made a huge contribution to the protection of humankind from this evil.
Of course, our political initiatives and events, as well as the processes that we launched, be it in Sochi or in Astana, also helped bring life back to normal in the Syrian Arab Republic.
It must be noted, however, that the political processes that we carried out, have been in a state of stagnation for the past three years. Of course, there are reasons for this. There are countries that have been going to great lengths to undermine these political processes. There are other factors as well, and we are aware of them and are doing everything we can to address these urgent matters.
Some countries have imposed sanctions on the Syrian people, and these measures are clearly inhumane, directed against the state and are illegitimate. Despite all this, these sanctions are still in force.
Nevertheless, even in the current environment the Syrian Arab Republic is engaged in a whole range of processes, undertakes actions and contributes to various initiatives that must be carried through, be it to promote political dialogue or other processes.
Taking this opportunity, I would like to discuss the issues that I have already mentioned, as well as other aspects of our bilateral cooperation within working groups or as will be decided today.
Once again, I would like to take this opportunity and convey through you our gratitude to the Russian state, the Russian people and every citizen in person for the humanitarian aid that the Russian Federation has been generously providing to the Syrian Arab Republic that has been suffering for so long, including the medicine for treating and preventing the spread of the coronavirus, as well as other kinds of assistance, including food and other essential supplies that Russia has been sending to Syria. Thank you for this help.
In addition to this, a special thank you to the [Russian] Foreign Ministry for its clear and firm position and policy line on the international stage to stand up for the legitimate, universally recognised international principles and norms. The right of every people to self-determination and to determine its future on its own based on the national law is an inalienable and essential right. I would like to thank your Foreign Ministry for staying true to this policy line on the international stage, as I have already said, in order to prevent the spread of terrorism to the benefit of countries that support terrorism and seek to use it to further their own agenda.
I would like to express my gratitude for this. Many thanks indeed
<…>
Geography
Syria
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
al-Assad Bashar
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 14, 2021, 07:00
Text version