Events
Unveiling of the memorial Prince Alexander Nevsky and his Retinue
Vladimir Putin attended the unveiling ceremony of the memorial Prince Alexander Nevsky and his Retinue in the Pskov Region.
September 11, 2021
19:40
Pskov Region
6 of 12
The ceremony unveiling the memorial complex Prince Alexander Nevsky and his Retinue. Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia conducts consecration of the historical and cultural memorial.
Attending the event were Chairman of the Patriarchal Council on Culture Metropolitan Tikhon (Shevkunov) of Pskov and Porkhov, Presidential Aide and Chairman of the Russian Military Historical Society Vladimir Medinsky
, and Governor of the Pskov Region Mikhail Vedernikov
. Patriarch Kirill
of Moscow and All Russia blessed the monument.
After the ceremony the President viewed the chapel in the name of the saint prince and briefly talked to members of the Russian Student Construction Brigades and Culture Volunteers, who were participants in beautification projects in villages adjacent to the historical and cultural complex.
The unveiling of the memorial on the shore of Lake Chudskoye is a centrepiece of the celebrations of the 800th anniversary of the birth of Alexander Nevsky, which, in accordance with presidential executive order, was marked in 2021. The bulk of the structure is a 50-tonne sculptural composition comprising the figures of the prince and knights and, directly above them – a bannerol and two banners featuring faces of the saints. The back of the memorial consists of a mosaic frieze.
* * *
Speech at the unveiling ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends,
Your Holiness,
Today we are unveiling a majestic memorial in honour of the defenders of Russian lands. Here, on Lake Chudskoye, Prince Alexander Nevsky and his retinue defeated foreign invaders and defended Novgorod and Pskov, which actually means the entire Old Rus. That victory came to be symbolic of Russia’s military glory.
This year we are marking the 800th anniversary of Alexander Nevsky’s birth. Our people’s sincere and deep love for him transcends from generation to generation. He is revered as a ruler who cared for the Fatherland with all his heart; as a talented commander and diplomat; and, without question, as a custodian of the faith and traditions of his native land, his fellow-countrymen and their spiritual and moral might.
He lived during the most challenging times in Russia’s history when disappearance and loss of our statehood were close to becoming a tragic reality. Almost all principalities in Ancient Rus endured the devastating Horde invasion, while neighbours from the west were striving to conquer Novgorod and Pskov. Alexander Nevsky and his soldiers stood up mightily and impregnably to fight for what was the last frontier of the Fatherland.
They dealt a devastating blow to the Swedes on the Neva River, drove the invaders out of Koporye and achieved victory at Lake Chudskoye. It was a decisive victory, which stopped the offensive in its tracks and showed everyone, both in the West and in the East, that Rus was standing strong and there were people in the Russian land who were willing and ready to fight for it while showing no mercy for their own lives.
Alexander Nevsky, a brilliant commander and a staunch defender of Rus, was a little over 20 years old at the time, and members of his retinue were, just like him, very young men. The monument shows the images of those courageous young warriors standing on the armour of their defeated enemies. We have no way of knowing what the princely soldiers looked like, but, as far as we understand, the sculptor came up with collective images.
Here, we can also see the images of the legendary 6th paratrooper company soldiers who have shown heroism en masse in our times. Symbolically, their regiment is named after Alexander Nevsky, and the servicemen from this regiment are standing guard here today. Nothing can break the sacred continuity of times and generations.
Friends,
Alexander Nevsky's personality was truly grandiose, and his life journey was hard and arduous. It was a life of making choices, and he always made his in the interest of preserving the identity and spiritual foundations of the Russian people, in the name of his native Rus, and in the name of the future of our state. For the sake of our country, Alexander Nevsky accomplished feats not just as a warrior in battles, but also as a skilful diplomat and a wise statesman.
He took a heavy burden upon himself, showed unparalleled vision and willpower and did everything possible to make Rus stronger so that it could preserve and carry on the traditions of ancient Russian statehood.
His exploits are reflected in Mikhail Lomonosov’s words engraved on Alexander Nevsky’s tomb: “… to the one who tamed barbarism in the East and brought down envy in the West.” His legacy became the strong and centralised Russian state that his descendants created, where the people identified themselves as one and preserved the memory of Alexander Nevsky for centuries. For us, his exploits remain a moral and spiritual buttress and an example of all-conquering patriotism.
The unveiling of the Prince Alexander Nevsky and His Retinue memorial is yet another confirmation of our people’s profound respect for the defenders of our Motherland. I sincerely thank Chairman of the Patriarchal Council for Culture, Metropolitan Tikhon of Pskov and Porkhov who initiated the creation of this memorial, and everyone who took part in designing and creating it, namely, the Russian Military Historical Society, the Defence Ministry, the authorities of the Pskov Region and the Gdovsky District.
Special thanks and words of gratitude go to the sculptor, Vitaly Shanov, for his talented embodiment of the heroic images of these warriors and defenders.
I know that the grounds next to the monument here in Samolva will be granted the status of a military glory battlefield. Volunteers from 30 regions of our country, including, of course, people from Pskov, are making their contribution to efforts aimed at the beautification of these grounds and nearby villages. This work will continue.
Of course, the state will also strengthen and step up its efforts to ensure that the grounds are kept in a decent condition. I just told the Governor [Mikhail Vedernikov] that we will make additional decisions to this end soon.
I wish success to every participant in this project, members of student brigades and the Volunteers of Culture movement.
Friends,
Despite the centuries that divide us, the image of Alexander Nevsky is trusted and relatable to everyone. It has always been with Russia, safeguarding it. It supports and inspires our people in fateful periods of trial and in times of peace and, I am sure, will remain a great example of service to the Fatherland forever, for centuries to come.
Thank you.
See also
All news about the trip to Pskov Region
Geography
Pskov Region
Topics
Culture
Regions
Religion
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2021, 19:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin. The Russian capital celebrates City Day on September 11.
September 11, 2021
11:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Sobyanin.
Congratulations to you and all Moscow residents. I think I will have a chance to congratulate them in a more direct format.
Whenever we meet, we always discuss the entire range of issues related to Moscow’s life and development. Moscow is a capital, Moscow is a city, but at the same time it is more than a city: it is a huge agglomeration of a global scale, and we know how complex the functioning processes of such agglomerations are.
We have been saying with pride lately that Moscow shows excellent development indicators compared to other agglomerations.
However, there are always issues, many issues, and the first of them is, of course, how the pandemic fallout and pandemic-related restrictions in the economy and the social sphere are being dealt with.
Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
: Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the huge amount of attention you have paid throughout this period. You always give Moscow your attention but especially during this period because Moscow has historically been an enormous transport hub. The population density is tremendous. The majority of road and rail cargo is transported via Moscow. In addition, as you have rightly said, it is also an agglomeration with a population of over 20 million people. So, the COVID pandemic has probably affected Moscow worse than others.
This unfading care for the city, rendering support, economic support launched by the Government and the State Duma of the Russian Federation on your instruction, means support for business, support for large families, pensioners and other social groups. All that combined with regional support efforts has had an effect. This is number one.
Second, your decision to adjust regional policy during the pandemic, considering that different regions had different incidence peaks, while providing support to operational decisions, which we always discussed with you, also enabled us to manage the economy as well as the restrictions and reduce them to a minimum. This was very important for the economy. If we had closed down the economy for two years just like that, we would have had quite a different situation, an absolutely different situation in every way.
Third, it is necessary to take into account the diversified economy that emerged in the agglomeration over the past decade. It is quite a different economy that is very stable.
Fourth, it is undoubtedly important that pursuant to your instruction and your decision, not a single government programme was stopped at that time. Of special importance are social and infrastructural programmes, such as the development of the Moscow transport hub, investment in the Central Ring Road and so on. This is very important.
Vladimir Putin: Now the country’s economy has been restored on the whole. How about Moscow?
Sergei Sobyanin: Thanks to these measures and decisions, the economy in Moscow has not only been restored, but also exceeded the pre-crisis level of 2019, and substantially so: from 7 to 20 plus percent in various industries and areas. Investment has increased, industrial production has grown, construction volume is up, unemployment has declined considerably and practically reached the pre-crisis level, which is extremely important.
Services is the only sector that remains in the red. However, that is understandable. This includes catering, hotels and transport – the most vulnerable sectors. Still, the decline is not too sharp, about five percent down from 2019. Therefore, this sector will probably reach the 2019 level by the end of the year.
Vladimir Putin: The development plans you have mentioned could not but have been affected by the crisis in the medium- and long-term prospective, including the relocation programme.
Sergei Sobyanin: Yes, Mr President. We discussed the relocation programme for the first time here, in this office. Of course, it is an essential project that involves a million people, a million Moscow residents.
Over this period, we have come a long way. We started with developing the urban planning documents, which was an enormous job, to be honest, like designing another city inside the city. About 50,000 people will have been relocated by the end of this year from the start of the programme. In the future, the figures will grow exponentially, because we have just launched the project, so we are on the starting line now, and there is more to come. We will implement this programme in three periods until 2032, as planned. This is an enormous and important programme.
Vladimir Putin: So these programmes have not been jeopardised?
Sergei Sobyanin: No, not at all. Moreover, thanks to your decisions on preferential mortgages and the measures within the national projects, I believe that, for example, housing construction in general, will be at a record level this year in the entire history of Moscow.
Vladimir Putin: We can set a record across the entire country.
Sergei Sobyanin: Yes, probably. But, speaking about Moscow, if in previous years we commissioned about three million square metres on average, this year we will reach almost six million. This is a lot. Of course, relocation has also played a role here, the volume has increased; nevertheless, it shows that the economy is developing. As you remember, there was such a sharp drop in 2008 and 2009: we dropped to two million from four. But there has been growth since 2010, and now it has reached a record level, which is also stable. We have already seen the volumes of over five million in 2019 and 2020, and now we are reaching six million.
Vladimir Putin: We know very well that when the volume of construction is increasing, it poses other tasks, too. I remember this well from my work in St Petersburg.
When the construction volume begins to grow, another problem appears: the problem of social infrastructure and transport. However, you personally focus a great deal on the development of transport infrastructure. The two of us have inaugurated and even planned some projects together, and you have implemented them all very well; everything is operational already. I mean the development of the ring, the second ring connected to New Moscow, communication with the Moscow Region, and transfer sites. What is the situation like with transport infrastructure?
Sergei Sobyanin: Mr President, this is an anniversary year in this respect. We have launched the Moscow Central Circle (MCC), as you remember, we commissioned surface metro, plus underground metro – in total, 90 stations have been commissioned throughout these years. Ten more will open this year, and before the year’s end there will 100 new stations. Such tempo was not seen even in the Soviet time. These are very serious and big efforts.
You have also rightly said about the metro’s Big Circle Line (BCL), which is an underground metro ring. We have already opened a third of it with another third to be launched later this year. Thus, two thirds of the ring will have been built.
I hope that next year or maybe in early 2023 we will open the remaining third, the most difficult one. It is in a good condition now. This means we will have the world’s largest metro ring; no other city has a bigger one. It will definitely radically change the situation with travelling around the city and traffic load on the radial metro lines. This is a crucial project.
In addition, we opened the Moscow central diameters, MCD 1 and MCD 2. Currently we are working on MCD 3 and MCD 4. MCD 3 is directly linked with the Leningrad railway line and the high-speed railway (HSR). Pre-FEED (front end engineering design) works are currently underway there. However, we think that the MCD should factor in the HSR as well. If we do not factor in those design solutions, then radical changes will have to be made. This is why we are working in parallel together with the railways at the HSR juncture, and the creation of this most efficient and straight diameter.
Vladimir Putin: Are they radial lines?
Sergei Sobyanin: Yes. We will connect these two radial lines here, add up and renovate the stations, renew the passenger rolling stock and make an entrance from the HSR.
Thank you very much. Your instruction has been fulfilled: the Government earmarked about 100 billion rubles from the National Wealth Fund so as not to stop the work on the Moscow transport hub, including this project. We co-fund it from the Moscow city budget. Our colleagues from the Moscow Region are helping, and the Russian Railways is financing it, too. Following your instruction, the Government has also helped to implement this project.
The next one we are working on, MCD 4, seems unattractive but it is in fact a very important project since it joins together all the railway terminals except for the Paveletsky terminal. Six terminals will actually be connected together by this line. This is an unparalleled and extremely challenging project, starting from the Kievskoye line towards the Gorkovskoye line.
Vladimir Putin: It will be very convenient for passengers. They will be able to interchange for practically any railway line.
Sergei Sobyanin: Absolutely. One can get to any terminal railway station in Moscow. It is also a mega project. Giant construction is underway there now – the lines and terminals are being connected; work is underway on all the sections.
We plan to launch MCD 3, and we will try to also launch MCD 4 in 2023. However, its commissioning may actually be postponed until 2024. At present we are trying to expedite it as far as possible together with the railway companies. Then the fifth diameter will be left, scheduled for 2024–2025.
Each of these diameters comprises dozens of kilometres of rail tracks, around 80 kilometres, and dozens of stations. We are remodelling these stations on the lines we are opening into mini-terminals of a high quality level. Initially they used to be just platforms whereas now they are full-scale stations, comfortable with lifts, escalators, ticket offices etc, and a new rolling stock. They are very important, big, huge projects.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Sobyanin, we are talking now about overcoming the consequences of the pandemic in the economy and infrastructure, we are talking about construction and the implementation of our relocation and development plans in Moscow. But healthcare is one of our most important spheres. The pandemic forced us to use part of our hospital beds and medical facilities, both federal and municipal, for a different purpose.
I also know that you have promptly reacted to changes in the situation, returning these medical facilities to their normal operation. How do things stand now?
Sergei Sobyanin: The situation has greatly improved, and we have allowed many hospital beds to be returned to their normal use. We are mostly using the reserve hospitals now, the ones we have created for the purpose, such as the Voronovskaya Hospital and other reserve hospitals that make up the core.
What we needed to do was not just to ensure the necessary assistance for coronavirus patients but also to continue providing planned medical care. We also needed to continue working to implement the national projects, the programmes to develop the primary care sector, overhaul old outpatient clinics, which we are turning into good modern facilities with up-to-date equipment, the necessary number of specialists, information technology, plus a patient-oriented approach, which we are talking so much about – all of this is becoming a reality at the new, modernised outpatient clinics. In this manner we are gradually improving the primary care sector.
We are also building new clinics: medical facilities with about a million square metres of floor space are under construction. They include new ER departments at the existing clinics and new hospitals, such as an oncology clinic at the Loginov Moscow Clinical Research Centre. A huge infectious diseases hospital has been built and is at the interior construction stage. This also includes several other new outpatient clinics and hospital blocks, including the ongoing construction of new hospital blocks in Kommunarka. In other words, we have not suspended a single of our healthcare projects. On the contrary, we have accelerated the implementation of these projects as much as possible.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
You have mentioned the speed of new construction projects. This brings to mind the matter of improving the historical centre, the areas where no major construction projects are underway, and the new construction projects.
Sergei Sobyanin: Mr President, this is a very good point, for last year we suspended these projects because people were working from home. It stands to reason that it was not a good time for major renovations.
This year we have resumed this programme in full. It covers some 20 Moscow streets and embankments, which we are renovating, and includes about 3,500 sites, such as courtyards in residential neighbourhoods, the improvement of the territories of outpatient clinics, schools and social facilities, and so on. It is a large and ambitious programme.
Our main focus is on comprehensive improvements, which means that we are not trying to work on individual elements but are trying to improve a residential district as a whole where people will be able to live comfortably without having to travel anywhere for services, or to enjoy fresh air in a park and a garden, or just to take a walk. People must be able to feel as comfortable in their neighbourhood as in the very best area in the city. People are proud of this, they know the history of their districts, and it is important to improve them as well as possible.
Vladimir Putin: This is marvellous, very good. As far as I know, Moscow has the largest number of electric buses in Europe. It is not just something to boast about; this is very important for ensuring the necessary environmental standards. Moscow is a large industrial centre and a major transport hub. I know that you team is paying considerable attention to these matters. How would you describe the environmental situation in the city?
Sergei Sobyanin: Mr President, it is believed that fundamentally large cities have a bad environmental situation, and the larger the city, the worse its environment. But modern cities can reverse this trend. How can we do this? By developing an eco-friendly industry.
You and I attended the opening ceremony of new facilities, new technological facilities at the Moscow Oil Refinery, which removed 99 percent of the smell and emissions. The modernisation of the plant is not over. It used to be one of the main pollutants in Moscow. Another major project concerns the renovation of the city’s water purification facilities.
Moreover, we were among the first to introduce Euro 5 fuel standards thanks to the modernisation of the Moscow Oil Refinery. This is extremely important. Plus we have restricted the movement of vehicles with Euro 2 engines to some parts of Moscow.
In the meantime, we have planted some 10 million trees and shrubs in Moscow.
Of course, you have mentioned quite correctly the programme of replacing old municipal vehicles. First, we replaced outdated buses that had Euro 2 engines with Euro 4 and Euro 5 versions, and now we are converting to electric buses. We have established two facilities at the KAMAZ and GAZ plants, which are producing one of the best electric buses in the world. Actually, this is a completely new industry; we are going to have about a thousand electric buses in Moscow by the end of the year. In other words, we have a really big pool of electric buses, which means that this mode of transportation has caught on and is working well even in our harsh northern conditions. It is an extremely important sphere.
Taken together, this is producing a good effect: the amount of pollutants has decreased by one-third or even by half. This is especially important near major thoroughfares and avenues with heavy traffic. The level of pollution there has decreased by half or two thirds.
Therefore, the environmental situation is gradually improving in Moscow thanks to all those involved, including the car owners who are buying better cars, municipal transport and city programmes. This gives us hope that the city environment will improve despite the growth of population and the number of cars in Moscow.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Economy and finance
Healthcare
Housing
Industry
2 more
Persons
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2021, 11:10
Text versionEvents
Awarding state decorations to winners of the XXXII Olympic Games in Tokyo
Gold medallists of the XXXII Olympics in Tokyo were awarded state decorations at a ceremony in Kremlin's St Catherine Hall.
September 11, 2021
13:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 38
Ceremony for presenting state decorations to winners of the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo.
Earlier that day, Presidential Aide Igor Levitin
presented state decorations to the silver and bronze medallists of the Tokyo Olympics.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Greetings, friends,
I am sincerely happy to congratulate you and all your teammates, coaches and mentors.
Russian athletes performed fittingly at the Tokyo Olympics. I understand how hard it was – everyone, the whole country understands how hard it was, at times beyond limits. It is an overwhelming physical and emotional stress, both during the preparations and at the Olympic competitions, compounded by the tough requirements and forced though necessary epidemic-related restrictions, which added to the challenges.
I cannot but recall the well-known politicised decisions that were imposed on our country and our team and which, regrettably, do not have much to do with sport. However, you endured everything, friends, you went through all these ordeals fighting for Russia’s sports honour. As I said, you fought with dignity and gave your fans and all of us the joy of witnessing your victories, and the unmatched unifying pride for our Fatherland.
Those present in this hall today made the ultimate contribution to this success. Gold champions in every sense, you are Russia’s biggest heroes and pride, with no exaggeration. The Olympics in Tokyo convincingly reaffirmed our unconditional global leadership and at the same time the continuity of the best national traditions of raising champions founded on the ideals and values of the Olympic movement and the commitment to mutual understanding and cooperation in the interests of the whole Olympic family.
One of its most experienced and wise representatives, Vitaly Smirnov, is here with us today. An outstanding sports manager and untiring enthusiast, this year he is celebrating the 50th anniversary of his work at the International Olympic Committee. Decades of fruitful innovative efforts earned him tremendous respect both in our country and abroad – no exaggeration here – and he is doing a great deal for Russian sport as he firmly upholds its interests.
Mr Smirnov has become the full cavalier of the Order For Services to the Fatherland. Congratulations. I ask all those present here to honour you.
Friends,
The achievements of the Russian team at the Olympics, your contribution to the progress of Russian sport and your example for young people – you are actually all young people, too, yet you are setting an example for your peers and younger generation – is vitally important for the country’s development and obviously deserves appreciation from the state, the country’s high awards.
The performances by our outstanding synchronised swimmers, traditionally striking with their ultimate precision, prowess and creativity, are among the most significant results of the Games. Russia is an absolute leader in this sport as well as in wrestling, where our athletes invariably collect plenty of gold medals for our national team.
Russian fencers brought joy to their fans again – they had both team and personal victories in Tokyo.
There were also long-awaited and exciting victories in rifle and pistol shooting, swimming, Taekwondo, tennis, and boxing, and I should say these victories were just brilliant.
I should also note the gold in track and field, where our national team has been going through difficult times these past few years. We believe it will be over soon and the Russian athletes will become leaders again and, as I have already said, they will be back triumphantly just as both men’s and women’s national artistic gymnastics teams were.
As to Russia’s leadership in rhythmic gymnastics, for us it has remained. We are absolutely sure that we had it, have it and will have it – I hope and I am sure – in the future.
At the Tokyo Olympics we saw what a large potential the Russian national team has. I would like to wish you every success. I am confident that such dedication and commitment to the result will remain and will be realised in future.
I congratulate you again on your outstanding victories and well-deserved awards. I wish you success, good health, wellbeing and all the very best.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Looking out into the hall, I see such mighty, nice-looking, graceful, young and successful people. Your looks would be enough, but you are also smart and advanced in all respects.
I was very pleased to listen to what you said about your country and homeland and how you even associated your awards with our distinguished figure Alexander Nevsky. All of this speaks to the fact that you are well-adjusted, quite serious, mature and forward-thinking people, in the broad sense of the word.
When I was speaking in the beginning I chose a very serious tone: I said you are the pride of Russia. I want to confirm this once again: you are exactly that.
I sincerely hope that your new lofty status and your successes will be solidified later in life. I am sure that this will indeed be the case. And no matter how your life turns out, either with or without sport, an Olympic medal is a “golden asset” that few people can attain.
Of course, all of us are trying to make our contribution: the state, to the best of its ability, coaches, doctors, massage therapists and so on, but it is those who race ahead that achieve success, and you are in the lead.
Thank you very much. I wish you success!
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Commission for State Decorations, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: September 11, 2021, 13:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Pskov Region Governor Mikhail Vedernikov
Concluding his working trip to the Pskov Region, the President held a meeting with Pskov Region Governor Mikhail Vedernikov.
September 11, 2021
21:20
Pskov Region
1 of 2
Meeting with Pskov Region Governor Mikhail Vedernikov.
The Governor began his report with a coronavirus update. In December, the region had up to 400 cases per day at the peak, whereas in the last two months, there has been a downward trend. Now there are about 90 cases per day. The main weapon in the fight against the infection has been a new, state-of-the-art infectious disease hospital, three buildings of which were built following the Presidential instruction last year. The number of vaccinated people is growing; over 70 percent of medical and social workers and over 80 percent of teachers have been vaccinated.
As for the socioeconomic indicators, Mikhail Vedernikov first of all spoke about problems associated with depopulation, as the region loses one percent of its population annually. Among the main problems are staff shortages in almost all spheres, weak economic base, undeveloped road infrastructure, outdated utilities and electric grid complex, and a low level of gas supply.
According to Mr Vedernikov, an extremely important issue is the state of the electric grid complex: 95 percent of its facilities are in need of renovation. As a result of bad weather this year, ten, fifteen, and even twenty thousand people were left without power several times. A five-year programme to improve energy efficiency in the region has been developed and agreed upon with the Energy Ministry. The Governor asked the President to give a corresponding instruction to the Government.
The Governor noted that renovation of the utilities infrastructure would have a positive effect on the region’s investment appeal. In this regard, the region is making good progress: the growth index of both industrial production and agriculture is slightly higher than the national average. The growth of investment in fixed assets is also slightly higher than the national average. The labour market is stabilising.
Another important problem is the staff shortage, especially in healthcare. As the Governor said, the issue of building a training and laboratory block for the medical faculty of Pskov State University has already been worked out with the Government. To speed up the construction, taking into account the positive experience in the construction of infectious disease buildings with the help of the Defence Ministry, the Governor asked the President to issue one more instruction: to allocate funds from the federal budget, and make the Defence Ministry the only provider of the service. An agreement with the Ministry has already been reached; the Ministry's specialists have already developed the project and are ready to start work this year. Then, in September next year, students will start studying there.
Vladimir Putin promised to support the region's proposals on the issues raised during the conversation.
Mr Vedernikov said that in order to address depopulation, the region, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, has worked out a proposal to create conditions for people, including compatriots, to move to rural areas and live comfortably, and for the Pskov Region to participate in a number of exclusive programmes currently in place for the regions in the Far East. The President said that this issue has already been resolved.
Mr Vedernikov also spoke about participation in the implementation of an individual socioeconomic programme for the regions. The Pskov Region participates in it as one of the ten regions with the lowest fiscal capacity. The region has already held 27 events worth more than one billion rubles. Also with the support of the President, renovation of infrastructure in border areas was launched.
See also
All news about the trip to Pskov Region
Geography
Pskov Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Vedernikov Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2021, 21:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with winners and medallists of the XXXII Olympic Games in Tokyo
The President of Russia met with the Russian medallists of the XXXII Olympic Games in Tokyo in the St George Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace.
September 11, 2021
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 5
Meeting with winners and medallists of the XXXII Olympic Games in Tokyo.
Before the meeting, Vladimir Putin awarded state decorations to the gold medallists of the Olympics in Tokyo.
The Russian team ranked fifth in the medal count with 71 medals in all, including 20 gold, 28 silver and 23 bronze medals.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I would like to once again wholeheartedly congratulate the medallists of the Tokyo Olympics.
I would also like to express our deepest gratitude to your coaches and mentors, who helped you on this long and difficult path towards Olympic heights, as well as to your families, which your teammates mentioned during the awards ceremony, your loved ones whose support helped you press on towards the most important goal for any athlete – the Olympic podium.
For some of you it was not the first Olympics and not the first Olympic victories, but there is no doubt that the joy of victory was as great for them as for the first-time gold winners.
I am confident that every one of her seven gold Olympic medals is equally unique and important for Svetlana Romashina, the most titled athlete in the global history of synchronised swimming. She won two of them in Tokyo, one in the duet routine with the magnificent Svetlana Kolesnichenko, and the other as a member of our incomparable synchronised swimming team. They have been absolutely superior to their rivals for years, which we see as an unmatched success for the Russian school of synchronised swimming.
As usual, our wrestling team has moved to the top this time again. Its golden march in this sport has continued uninterrupted for nearly 70 years, since 1952. This time our wrestlers have taken eight medals, four of them gold.
You have won eight medals in the shooting events. One of the winners is Vitalina Batsarashkina, who claimed the first gold medal for our team in Tokyo. She surged purposefully ahead of her famed rivals, rising to the top of the podium twice and set a record by winning three medals at the Olympic Games. Well done!
Such achievements have always been the centrepiece of the Olympic Games, adding attraction and excitement to them and proving that human abilities and strength of will are truly infinite.
Our track and field athletes demonstrated their unmistakable sporting character. Overcoming all the obstacles, Maria Lasitskene has literally jumped to the top of the Olympic podium. She and her teammate, Anzhelika Sidorova, have proved convincingly that track and field is regarded as the queen of sports largely thanks to Russian athletes.
Fans held their breath as they watched the fencing events, especially when Marta Martyanova joined the fight despite her injury, which she has told me about just now. We admire mutual support and the fighting spirit of our brilliant women’s fencing team and their new team victory. Our girls have done it again!
Our special thanks go to Sofia Pozdnyakova, who has stormed into the group of the world’s biggest sabre stars. She has won two gold medals during her first Olympics. This is what being a member of a sports family means: you may know that her father is a famous four-time Olympic champion.
Our fans enjoyed the extremely emotional performance of our gymnasts and rejoiced as they finally reclaimed their status of the best of the best. Moreover, both the men’s and the women’s teams have made it to the top of the podium. Their comeback victories have definitely become part of the global history of sports.
Our swimmers have moved forward in the efforts to regain the status of the best, especially thanks to Yevgeny Rylov. His surge towards the leading position and his two gold medals are a brilliant proof of our national team’s huge potential.
Our belief in the future of the Russian national team has been reinforced with Olympic medals we won in archery, beach volleyball, a new Olympic sport – 3x3 basketball, as well as taekwondo, where Russian athletes have not just won their first Olympic medals but also the team gold. As you know, one of the athletes was performing with a broken arm – he is a true hero and a real trooper. We are deeply grateful to him.
Another of your valuable achievements is the first team gold in tennis mixed doubles, which ended with an inspiring gift of an all-Russian final event.
We will all remember the traditionally thrilling fights of the Russian boxers. Our athletes have been posting excellent results in this sport over the past years. I believe that the foundation laid here as well as the legendary traditions of the Russian boxing school will ensure future victories.
The Russian rhythmic gymnastics team evoked sincere admiration.
Our dear girls, you are always the very best and the first, our solid gold for the entire country.
I would like to reach out to the silver and bronze medallists. A stop one or two steps away from the top of the Olympic podium always brings about complicated emotions: the gold seemed so very close yet something went wrong, something failed. However, this is exactly what makes an athlete stronger, tempers their character and projects them to a new level of mastery unattainable by their rivals.
The glorious and triumphant history of many generations of our outstanding athletes proves that nothing is impossible. The key is to work hard and always believe in yourself. Hard work, talent and self-belief, confidence in your country, which stands behind you – I know that all too well.
It will not be a long wait until new competitions. In just a few months your comrades – the Russian winter Olympic team – will walk onto the arenas of the Beijing Winter Olympics, and in less than three years many of you will face off your rivals in Paris, where you and your comrades, the young generation of Russian athletes, will confidently reassert your standing – I have no doubt about that – with your victories in a fair, honest and uncompromising fight.
As you may know, yesterday my colleagues and I discussed the results of the Tokyo Olympics and plans for the future at a meeting of the Council for Sport. We will continue helping you and create the best conditions for training, including through the efforts of the Foundation for the Support of Russian Olympians. Many years of its truly selfless work have made a huge contribution to the progress of Russian high-performance sport.
I would like to specially note that each medal you won at the XXXII Summer Olympics carries with it a big personal and human story, a long and dedicated road to the sports summit, and you have traversed it in a truly dignified manner.
Your examples have a colossal inspirational potential, they prove the value of physical culture and sport, fill young people with a desire to follow in your footsteps and opt for an active and healthy lifestyle.
Thank you for your efforts and for your loyalty to the ideals of the Olympic movement. I congratulate you on outstanding achievements and well-deserved awards and, of course, wish you new successes and amazing victories and records for the glory of Russia.
Thank you very much.
(The national anthem of Russia is played.)
See also
Awarding state decorations to winners of the XXXII Olympic Games in Tokyo
September 11, 2021
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: September 11, 2021, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin congratulated Moscow residents on City Day
The President attended a gala at the Zaryadye concert hall, celebrating the 874th anniversary of Moscow.
September 11, 2021
12:10
Moscow
At a gala at the Zaryadye concert hall, celebrating the 874th anniversary of Moscow. Photo: RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear Moscow residents, friends,
Mr Sobyanin,
I congratulate all of you on Moscow Day.
This holiday, as much as our beautiful capital, unites millions of Russian citizens, all those who love Moscow, honour its centuries-long history which is inseparably connected with the emergence and growth of Russia’s statehood.
One cannot but admire Moscow and its special spirit. Majestic and proud, it did not freeze in its decorous solemnity as it preserves the wisdom of an old city and moves in tune with the time and its avalanche changes. It lives the fast-paced life of innovation, just as one of the world’s largest metropolises should.
Moscow is busting with this unique energy of motion, the energy of great and daring goals and advanced achievements in diverse spheres – business, education, science, culture and sport.
The city’s transformation is dynamic: large infrastructure projects are underway here, high standards are set in developing environmentally-friendly and comfortable public transport, new metro lines and stations are being opened. This spring the city got its first new railway station since the start of last century – Vostochny.
Surface metro is also set to expand. It will connect Moscow with the Moscow Region and is eagerly awaited by millions of residents both in the city and the region.
The renovation of the Moskva-river embankments is nearing completion. A one-of-a-kind multi-purpose House of Culture will open shortly in the renovated building of the historical hydropower station building near Zaryadye.
Thanks to the relocation programme, tens of thousands of city residents have already moved into modern homes. Parks, green areas, courtyards and playgrounds are being actively improved in residential areas.
The construction of the Vorobyovy Gory Centre, the largest technology valley, has been launched. It will unveil breakthrough opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students and faculty members of Moscow State University, for all those who align themselves with science and innovations, and will generally help to make a crucial step in the scientific and technological development of the nation. Cutting-edge technologies and convenient modern services have already become routine for Moscow residents.
The city is changing, but it retains its authenticity: the charm of its lanes, old estates and mansions. Its unique historical, cultural and architectural heritage attracts both its residents and visitors to the city and certainly commands careful and respectful attitude and joint efforts of the city authorities, volunteers, proactive citizens and caring people. I am confident that such a fruitful partnership will continue to develop further.
Friends,
Regrettably, it is for the second year running that we are marking this day amid the challenging circumstances of the pandemic. I believe that many of you will agree that Moscow has become a shining example of efficacy in combating this threat, finding a balance between the restrictions that had to be enforced to save thousands of lives and a normal life and development of our metropolis. Major credit for this goes to Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin, who is not shirking the responsibility of making the necessary but not always popular decisions. Credit for this also goes to the entire management team of Moscow.
By and large, Moscow businesses, industrial facilities and construction enterprises provide a positive example when it comes to overcoming the decline caused by the pandemic and have demonstrated a good growth rate, which has already exceeded the 2019 level.
The city’s doctors, medical nurses and ambulance teams – in fact, all our medical workers continue working selflessly to the best of their abilities under extra strain and despite the fatigue of these challenging months. They are devising more effective treatment methods, working to save lives and helping their colleagues in the regions.
The Russian scientific school and Moscow scientists have created reliable vaccines – Sputnik V, Sputnik Light and CoviVac. Dear friends who have gathered in this hall – unfortunately, we could not invite everyone who has attained such results – I would like to ask you to pass on our gratitude to these scientists and give our greetings to them once again.
I want to thank all Moscow residents for their patience and endurance, and our volunteers, who are always at the forefront of helping people, for their kind hearts.
Moscow has always been and will remain a consolidating and unifying centre of our vast country. During the times of trial, while working to implement our common plans, on weekdays and holidays – at all times Russia and its capital always remain inseparable.
Our congratulations to you, Moscow!
Dear Moscow residents, congratulations on Moscow Day!
I would like to thank all of you and wish you a happy holiday.
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 11, 2021, 12:10
Text version