The meeting included Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino, Deputy Prime Ministers Yury Borisov and Tatyana Golikova, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin, Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov, Healthcare Minister Mikhail Murashko, Minister of Science and Higher Education Valery Falkov, Head of the Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare – Chief State Sanitary Physician Anna Popova, Head of the 48 Central Research Institute of the Defence Ministry Sergei Borisevich, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) Kirill Dmitriev, Director of the Gamaleya Federal Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology of the Healthcare Ministry Alexander Gintsburg, General Manager of the National Immunobiological Company (Nacimbio) of the Rostec State Corporation Andrei Zagorsky, Director General of the Chumakov Federal Scientific Centre for the Research and Development of Immune and Biological Products Aidar Ishmukhametov, General Director of the Vektor State Research Centre of Virology and Biotechnology Rinat Maksyutov, as well as the heads of companies Biocad, Binnopharm Group, Vector-BiAlgam, R-Pharm, Geropharm, Epivac, Generium, Pharmstandard and Nanolek.
Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov: I would like to report successively about building up the production of each of the three anti-coronavirus vaccines.
Healthcare Minister Mikhail Murashko: Mr President,
<…>
Director of the Gamaleya National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology Alexander Gintsburg: The Gamaleya Centre also addresses the problem of expanding the production of the Sputnik Light vaccine. In addition, as the holder of the registration certificate, the Centre assumes all responsibility for quality control of this vaccine at all enterprises where it is manufactured in this country and abroad.
Moreover, the Centre is directly involved in launching contractual production that is mostly organised by the Russian Direct Investment Fund. The Centre has prepared the entire package of documents for registering the Sputnik Light vaccine in 55 countries. Considering that each country has its own regulatory system, this is not a fixed package of documents that will apply everywhere; we have to adapt it to every country’s regulatory system.
The Centre is also working on creating various modifications of the Sputnik V vaccine, primarily for different population categories.
The Government’s financial support made it possible for us to quickly and effectively complete the first, second and third stages of clinical trials. The Lancet, a highly prestigious and popular medical journal, published two articles on the results of these trials. This provides important scientific evidence proving the vaccine’s efficacy, and, in our opinion, this has also answered a lot of questions. In any event, this has completely eliminated the Western academic community’ scepticism regarding this vaccine’s quality and efficacy.
My deputy Denis Logunov and I subsequently held numerous meetings with researchers and leading US and European specialists working on similar vaccines, and we proved that our scientific and other approaches were correct, as was the regulatory system that the Russian Government used in these emergency circumstances, during the pandemic, in order to register the vaccine, meaning the procedures stipulated in the Government’s Resolution No. 441 that all Russians are familiar with. Although no one has mentioned this resolution, I would like to note that the entire world now uses its regulatory principles.
Regarding our current plans to further promote this vaccine, I would like to note that major efforts are now underway to prepare the documents that will, hopefully, make it possible to study the effect of Sputnik Light on children, after all formalities with its registration for adults are completed. Clinical and scientific data show that, unfortunately, children also contract COVID-19. Fortunately, they do not always suffer as much as adults, but, nevertheless, the situation is rather disturbing. Today, no one knows what long-term consequences of the infection children may suffer. Consequently, the vaccination of children is a problem that each country and the international community will either face in the near future or is already facing. We are also currently studying the protection that Sputnik Light gives against new strains of the coronavirus.
I would like to inform you that last week the Gamaleya Research Centre held large talks, headed by Russian Ambassador to Italy Sergei Razov, with a leading Italian regulatory institute, the Spallanzani Institute, a counterpart of ours. We have agreed that this week their regulatory bodies will send us through their Ministry of Health a draft memorandum of cooperation between the two institutes, because according to the Spallanzani Institute, it has the largest collection of newly emerged and isolated strains of COVID-19 pathogens in Europe, and this is really so.
If you support this, in just a week the Italians are ready to welcome our employees, who are ready to bring plasma samples from patients vaccinated with Sputnik V, so that the substantial range and number of strains available in the Spallanzani Institute’s collection can be tested for the neutralising activity of the serum obtained from those vaccinated with Sputnik V.
With such cooperation, this work can be done quite quickly. Of course, it not only draws great scientific interest but, I hope, a broad public response, as well as enhances the reputation and promotes our medicine on the global stage in the future.
Once again, thank you very much, Mr President, for supporting all our work at all the development stages and for paying attention to our efforts.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Gintsburg, speaking about children’s vaccination, at what age can it begin today? What do you think?
Alexander Gintsburg: Mr President, it is an appropriate and understandable question. Of course, children must be divided into several age groups. It is necessary to start from the age of 17 and down to 12 or 13. We are now working on this with paediatricians. You see, I am not an expert in paediatric immunology. We have great specialists, and now we are clarifying this.
The next group probably will be those eight years old and up. It is difficult for me to make a prediction for the next one. Perhaps three or four years. Perhaps we will add a lower age group. For this age group – thank you for asking this question – we have developed, patented, and are currently launching clinical trials of Sputnik V’s intranasal form. This is a very gentle and patient-friendly form of vaccination for children, especially little children, who can be traumatised when they see a syringe or when possible side effects arise. The first experiments show that the intranasal form is completely free from any side effects.
: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova: I would like to say a big thank you to our colleagues who are participating or not participating in this meeting, the development teams. To reiterate, in a fairly short time, despite the difficulties, amid the challenging pandemic of 2020, our colleagues accomplished something that seemed almost impossible. Indeed, as you noted, Mr President, they worked 24/7 and made Russia the leader in the production and use of vaccines, primarily, for the public in Russia.