Events
Night Hockey League gala match
Vladimir Putin took part in the gala match of the 10th Night Hockey League National Festival at the Bolshoi Ice Arena in Sochi.
May 10, 2021
20:10
Sochi
5 of 13
Before the Night Hockey League gala match.
The Night Hockey League is an all-Russia amateur teams hockey tournament founded at Vladimir Putin’s initiative in 2011. Along with the main trophy of the tournament, the Krutov Cup, the winning team will be awarded a grant for the construction of an ice arena in the region it represents.
The tenth tournament was won by Monolit team from Nizhny Novgorod.
As is customary, Vladimir Putin played for the Hockey Legends team as No. 11 against the Night Hockey League team.
After the match, the President met with hockey player Pavel Bure and presented a state decoration to him – the Order for Services to the Fatherland IV degree.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Players and fans,
See also
Video address on the start of the final stage of the 10th Night Hockey League National Amateur Teams Hockey Festival in Sochi
May 4, 2021
I wish you all the best on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the Night Hockey League.
Along with making your own life more exciting and vibrant, more beautiful and meaningful, you are also setting a wonderful example for millions of other people. You are increasing your life span and improving the quality of life, giving it more meaning. Thank you very much for that.
And of course, I would like to thank our wonderful hockey stars – not only those from Russia, but international players as well – for taking part in this huge project intended for the whole country, for a multimillion person audience. Thank you very much.
The President of the International Ice Hockey Federation, Mr Fasel, is our guest today. Let's welcome him. (Applause.) Thank you for not only supporting professional sports but also for promoting amateur sports, in this case in Russia. Thank you very much.
Announcer: The President of the International Ice Hockey Federation, Mr René Fasel, will now take the floor.
(Applause.)
See also
Meeting with President of the International Ice Hockey Federation René Fasel
May 10, 2021
René Fasel (in Russian): Privet, Sochi!
Mr President! Ladies and Gentlemen! Friends, good afternoon!
I am very, very happy to see everyone again today, very happy. Once again, I wish you good health and good luck. Hooray!
Announcer: Now, amateur hockey player Oleg Smirnov, a representative of the Night Hockey League, a representative of the Ryazan Region, is awarded a special prize for loyalty to amateur hockey. This special prize is presented by President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
Vladimir Putin: Friends, we have one more recipient. Pavel Bure has been awarded the Order for Services to the Fatherland IV degree for his outstanding achievements in high-performance sports and international sports and also for his attention to and development of amateur sports. Congratulations.
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 10, 2021, 20:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the International Ice Hockey Federation René Fasel
Vladimir Putin met with President of the International Ice Hockey Federation René Fasel.
May 10, 2021
15:05
Sochi
1 of 4
With President of the International Ice Hockey Federation René Fasel.
President of the International Ice Hockey Federation René Fasel (in Russian): Zdravstvuite!
President of Russia Vladimir Putin (speaking German): Mr President, first, I would like to thank you for your visit. We will discuss the World Junior Ice Hockey Championships in Novosibirsk and Omsk and the 2023 Ice Hockey World Championship in St Petersburg. We are preparing.
René Fasel (retranslated): Good! I saw Avangard Omsk’s recent win.
Vladimir Putin: It was fascinating.
René Fasel: An arena is being built in Omsk. Perhaps it will be ready by next year. Novosibirsk is doing fine, too. We hope the arena in St Petersburg will also be completed. We will be very happy if it is.
Vladimir Putin: So will we. Thank you for visiting us today. You are going, aren’t you, as far as I know?
René Fasel: Of course. Today is the final stage of the Night Hockey League. Thank you for the invitation. I have met some old friends at the hotel: Fetisov, Bure, Myshkin, Kamensky – everyone was quarantined there. Well, this is how it is these days. But it was fun.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
René Fasel: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 10, 2021, 15:05
Text versionEvents
Comment on the progress of vaccination programme in the Russian Federation
May 10, 2021
15:15
Comment on the progress of vaccination programme in the Russian Federation.
Question: Mr President, it is now time for your second shot. We would like to know how it’s going, what about your antibody titre? How do you assess the overall vaccination situation around the country?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: According to the experts, the situation is stable.
As they say, the trend is flat now, I mean it is not rising but is at the same level it reached over the previous period. All these figures have been made public: more than 8,000 new cases, but more people are recovering, thank God. Therefore, we need to continue both our testing and vaccination efforts. These two components are very important in order to overcome this pandemic and its consequences.
As for your humble servant, yes, indeed I took the test yesterday, on May 9, and yes, I tested positive for antibodies.
You are asking about the titre, but experts now prefer talking in terms of the coefficient of positivity – mine is 15. The doctors say it is a good result.
In this connection, I would like to say that we have 21.5 million people vaccinated. The results are very good across the country. And as I did in my previous statements, I would like to urge people to get vaccinated without wasting any time. I know many are on holiday, but the days off are almost over. So in the future, if you have any symptoms, please see a doctor immediately without waiting for the disease to develop.
I spoke with Ms Popova, the chief sanitary doctor, today. I would like to repeat, on my behalf and also for her, I am appealing to our people, our citizens, to join the vaccination programme. Once again, I would also like to remind the regional leaders of the need to comply with the target figures for COVID-19 testing and vaccination. And of course, the current sanitary rules developed by the experts need to be observed at all times. In no case should you neglect the recommendations they give – citizens are required to wear facemasks and comply with the other precautions. This is the only way we can succeed. But I am sure we will, I have no doubt.
Topics
Healthcare
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 10, 2021, 15:15
Text version