Events
Address to participants in International Ice Hockey Federation Congress
Vladimir Putin addressed participants in the International Ice Hockey Federation Semi-Annual Congress, currently being held in St Petersburg.
September 22, 2021
10:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Address to participants in International Ice Hockey Federation Congress.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
It is a great privilege for me to welcome to Russia the participants in the International Ice Hockey Federation Semi-Annual Congress.
Russia shares long-standing and close ties with this prominent organisation. Together, we have built a solid track record of successful joint undertakings. We know very well how dedicated the people working in the IIHF Council, commissions and groups are. They are true professionals who devote so much effort to developing hockey all around the world.
In Russia, ice hockey is one of the most popular and beloved sports. This is a vibrant, spectacular, and simply beautiful game, and we have every right to take pride in our glorious traditions and achievements in ice hockey, and in our outstanding athletes. Russians are keeping a close eye on what is happening in the world of hockey, watch hockey games and play hockey themselves.
Last year, more than 620,000 people, and these are just official figures, played hockey in Russia, including 74,000 youngsters, who are learning to play this game in specialised schools and want to dedicate their lives to this sport.
Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to thank the International Ice Hockey Federation for its invariably constructive cooperation and trust. Time and again, when choosing host countries for various championships, you chose Russia. I would just like to reiterate that this holds special value and importance in the eyes of Russian society.
We are looking forward to hosting the World Junior Championship, scheduled to take place in late 2022 in Novosibirsk and Omsk, as well as the 2023 IIHF World Championship in St Petersburg.
Let me assure the federation that moving forward, it can count on Russia as a like-minded, reliable partner in its programmes and projects to strengthen hockey around the world and to promote it on a grand scale.
On a separate note, I would like to highlight the work done by IIHF President, Rene Fasel, with whom I had the privilege to meet face-to-face on a number of occasions.
This is a very responsible, knowledgeable, proactive and open person. Not only does he possess exquisite organisational talent and extensive experience, but he is also sincerely dedicated to hockey. While paying tribute to all those who stood at the helm of the IIHF throughout its history, I would like to stress Mr Fasel’s unique contribution to developing and promoting this sport. Never has there been so much interest toward hockey or so much growth.
I know that Rene Fasel is about to complete his term as IIHF President. A new executive team is set to be elected at this semi-annual congress, including a new president. I would like to wish them to build on the accomplishments of their predecessors, and to further enhance the success and glory of world hockey.
I wish the participants in this congress every success and fruitful work. I hope that your visit to the marvellous city of St Petersburg, Russia’s northern capital, will leave you with only the most positive impressions.
Thank you.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: September 22, 2021, 10:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of the Republic of Adygeya Murat Kumpilov
Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with Head of the Republic of Adygeya Murat Kumpilov to discuss the socioeconomic situation in the Republic.
September 22, 2021
13:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 3
At a meeting with Head of Republic of Adygeya Murat Kumpilov (via videoconference).
Murat Kumpilov
began his report by updating the President on the fight against the coronavirus infection. He said that the disease rate is gradually going down, the Republic had a sufficient amount of equipment, medicine and medical personnel, and immunisation campaign was ongoing.
As for the economy, the Head of the Republic pointed out that GRP was growing and should reach 104 percent by the yearend. The industrial production index is currently 108 percent, and growth of the Republic’s own budget revenues is 126 percent. Over the past few years, the Republic has implemented several investment projects, including wind power generation projects worth 23 billion rubles, which currently produces 150 MW of electricity, and solar energy projects worth 1 billion rubles, with a 10 MW output. A large cluster of goat farms is being created with equipment for milk processing and cheese production, including soft Adygeya and other cheeses. The first phase of the project has been completed: 6,000 Saanen goats will be delivered to the farms this year, where the first 3,000 goats are already producing milk.
Other investment projects include a MEGA Adygeya shopping centre (4.2 billion rubles of investment) and the Lago-Naki Park Resort with 35 billion rubles in private investment. Pre-project planning is underway in accordance with the instructions of the federal Government on the establishment of a biosphere nature reserve. An industrial park is being established in the Takhtamukay District, where infrastructure projects are being implemented jointly with Rosseti and Gazprom.
Thanks to the national projects, state programmes and the Republic’s individual socioeconomic development programme, efforts are being made in every city and town to improve the people’s quality of life, Murat Kumpilov pointed out. This includes roads, infrastructure, kindergartens, schools, hospitals, outpatient clinics, and sports facilities.
Murat Kumpilov also mentioned two problems, which the Republic is unable to deal with single-handedly. One is the construction of a new tuberculosis dispensary, and the other concerns increasing the number of water purification facilities in Maikop.
Vladimir Putin pointed out positive development trends in the Republic, including the growth of GRP, industrial production and agriculture.
However, several problems need to be given special attention. One of the social problems is a shortage of medical workers, where the provision of housing to medical personnel has a major role to play. The President said that this is something to be seriously considered, the Republic should apply to be included in the relevant programmes, and that school repairs and renovation projects should be coordinated with the federal Government. In addition to this, the Republic should apply to be included in the Government’s programme on children’s pre-school institutions, since there is still a shortage of them in the Republic. As for the water purification facilities, this has to do with the Republic’s other concern, which is the need to pay more attention to the problem of clean water.
The President concluded that all of the topics the Head of Adygeya had mentioned deserved to be given Government support. Relevant instructions will be issued. This also concerns healthcare matters, more specifically, the construction of a tuberculosis dispensary. Instructions concerning vital infrastructure will also be issued to the Government.
Murat Kumpilov also said that next year the Republic would mark its 100th anniversary and invited Vladimir Putin to attend the celebrations.
The President replied that it would indeed be a major event and expressed confidence that it would be marked properly.
Geography
Republic of Adygeya
Topics
Regions
Persons
Kumpilov Murat
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 22, 2021, 13:45
Text version