Events
Meeting with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
Vladimir Putin held a separate meeting with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu who reported on the construction of the Armed Forces Museum project at Patriot Park.
May 27, 2021
17:00
Sochi
1 of 5
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu presents the Armed Forces Museum project at Patriot Park.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Mr President, you approved the construction of the Armed Forces’ Main Cathedral, and now we are presenting a large project for a major museum of the Armed Forces.
Of course, we have one in Moscow. We are building this one so that some 740,000 items that are in storage at various museums could be…
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Exhibited.
Sergei Shoigu: Exhibited for our people, for our compatriots to see.
This building will be unique because we plan to establish something like a historical theatre in each wing, for example, the Battle of Borodino here.
There will be artifacts, redoubts, weapons, cannons, uniforms and flags: everything that we keep in storage today will be presented. We have 43,000 items of small arms from different wars alone.
This is why we would like to ask you to support this initiative. It would be the largest museum: almost 150,000 square metres.
Vladimir Putin: What a beautiful model. Is this a star?
Sergei Shoigu: Yes, Mr President, stars. These stars will overlap each other, and of course, here they will be presented at different levels.
In addition to this, there will not be just a passage here but also a weapons exhibition. We show this simply to see the scale of the building. And, of course, here we have heavy equipment, aircraft, and many other things, like we did next to the Main Cathedral of the Armed Forces: we have a similar battle installation there.
And here, the exhibition will change, for example, once a season or every six months. For example, the Battle of Stalingrad here and the Defence of Brest Fortress there.
In order to do this, we will set up workshops that will change the exhibits every six months, and people will visit and say like in a theatre: tonight, there will be this show. Not even a show, but an exhibition of historical events of the time, such as World War I, or the Battle of Kulikovo, or many other events.
Vladimir Putin: A live museum.
Sergei Shoigu: Yes, Mr President, a live museum.
Topics
Armed Forces
Culture
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2021, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Defence Ministry leaders and defence industry representatives
The President held a final conference in a series of meetings with the leaders of the Defence Ministry and heads of defence industry companies to plan the strengthening and development of the Armed Forces and the domestic defence industry.
May 27, 2021
15:35
Sochi
1 of 2
Meeting with Defence Ministry leaders and defence industry representatives.
Today’s meeting is devoted to the development and serial production of long-range precision weapons and other modern attack systems, and the development of military transport aviation for the Aerospace Forces.
Earlier, at meetings held all of this week the discussion covered the long-term development of the Armed Forces and the implementation of the state defence order.
The final meeting was attended by Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Head of the General Staff – First Deputy Defence Minister Valery Gerasimov
, Deputy Defence Minister Alexei Krivoruchko, Commander-in-Chief of the Aerospace Forces Sergei Surovikin, Commander-in-Chief of the Navy Nikolai Yevmenov, First Deputy Chief of the Main Operational Directorate of the General Staff Viktor Poznikhir, Head of the 3rd Department of the Main Operational Directorate of the General Staff Andrei Sterlin. Other officials invited to the meeting included Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov
, top officials from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Accounts Chamber, the Military-Industrial Commission, the Federal Service for Technical and Export Control, and the state corporations Roscosmos, Rostec, as well as the United Aircraft Corporation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today, we are concluding the current round of meetings on strengthening our Army, Navy and defence industry.
The first item on our agenda will be prospects for the development and production of long-range precision weapons and other modern attack systems.
See also
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and heads of defence industry enterprises
May 25, 2021
Meeting on state defence order implementation
May 26, 2021
An analysis of armed conflicts of the past few decades and the experience of the development of the world’s leading armies show the growing role of the effective use of, say, cruise missiles with different platform bases, as well as guided munitions. It is important to provide our Army and Navy with an adequate number of precision weapons of this kind.
Now our troops have received or are receiving the latest Х-101 and Calibre long-range cruise missiles, ballistic and cruise missiles of the Iskander tactical systems, multiple launch rocket systems and guided air bombs of different calibers.
In terms of specifications, they are not inferior to their foreign counterparts. Moreover, they are often superior to them and unique in some specifications. This has been confirmed in combat as well – during the anti-terrorist operations in Syria.
It is important to maintain the necessary production rate of contemporary strike weapons for their use and combat training.
Colleagues, I would like to hear from you what organisational and economic decisions would allow for dealing with this task in the most efficient way and also about the preparedness of defence industry enterprises for the serial production of the most advanced weapons.
The second issue is the development of the military transport aviation of the Aerospace Forces. I want to note that its consolidated operation and the fleet’s readiness defines its capability to move troops promptly over great distances. For our country, the largest country in the world, it is especially important that our army can be compact but efficient. It is also important for holding successful landing operations.
It is obvious that our Armed Forces need to have enough military and transport aircraft and heavy helicopters. There are certain achievements and groundwork in this area.
Thus, the technical serviceability of An-124 strategic airlifts is being maintained with the use of Russian-made components. The state trials of the Il-112V light military transport aircraft are being concluded; in 2021, plans call for delivering two such planes. The production of Il-76 is being resumed on a new technological base. The army will receive five Il-76MD-90As before the end of the year.
At the same time, according to preliminary data, the Defence Ministry requires many more military transport aircraft and helicopters.
Let us discuss today how to solve this problem, outline measures to boost production and modernise the military transport industry.
Let us get down to business.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2021, 15:35
Text versionEvents
Video address to participants in Russian conference Paediatric Oncology, Haematology and Immunology in 21st Century: From Science to Practice
May 27, 2021
10:00
Video address to participants in Russian conference Paediatric Oncology, Haematology and Immunology in 21st Century: From Science to Practice.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
It is a pleasure to have this opportunity to address the Russian and foreign participants in this conference, Paediatric Oncology, Haematology and Immunology in the 21st Century: From Science to Practice.
I am fully aware that you are dealing with literally vital matters.
This conference has brought together specialists from many countries at the Dmitry Rogachev National Research Centre. This is one of the world’s largest paediatric oncology and haematology clinics. Thousands of children with these serious diseases are receiving effective, high-tech medical treatment here.
This unique centre opened 10 years ago. This is a very personal story for me, because my meeting with Dima Rogachev, a boy who was unusually generous and cheerful despite his serious disease, led to the immediate decision to establish a paediatric oncology clinic.
We were indeed aware of the need to establish such a centre with cutting-edge technology in Russia. But my meeting with the team of empathic doctors and their patient, Dima, greatly accelerated the process. We built the centre jointly with our German and other foreign partners, stocked it with the equipment necessary for treatment and research and named it after the boy whose dream we have implemented.
It is notable that the clinic continues developing and improving. Thanks to the rehabilitation system established here, over 2,500 children receive follow-up care every year.
I would like to note that the centre’s specialists provide assistance to their colleagues in all regions of Russia, consulting them in serious cases and systematically introducing the most advanced treatment methods in Russian clinics. They are also creating modern technologies not only for the effective treatment of these diseases but also for preventing them before it is too late. These technologies are based on the research conducted at the centre and on the latest scientific achievements, including in molecular biology and genetics. It would be no exaggeration to say that we are talking about real medicine of the future, which is becoming a reality at the Rogachev Centre.
I would like to extend my sincere gratitude to all the staff at the centre for their high professionalism, kindness and generosity, for saving lives and creating an atmosphere of hope through their practical daily work and achievements, as well as for each individual victory over this dreadful disease. I know that your slogan is “Every child must get well,” and that you are doing everything possible and more towards this end. You have not stopped working but continued to provide assistance to gravely ill children even during the most difficult and challenging periods of the coronavirus pandemic.
It should be noted that during the past years we have dramatically improved and readjusted the entire system of providing medical assistance to children with oncologic and haematology diseases, and have also greatly expanded the use of advanced technologies at the centre.
During the past four years, the volume of high-tech medical assistance in paediatric oncology has increased by over 30 percent throughout Russia. In particular, the number of complicated and truly unique procedures such as bone marrow transplants has increased: 667 such procedures were performed last year alone.
Russian specialists restore the health of nearly 80 percent of their small oncology and haematology patients, and the figure is as high as 90 percent for certain other diseases. This is a great and very important achievement, which the UN and the World Health Organisation have taken note of.
Only 5 percent of children recovered from acute leukaemia back in 1991, while the current figure is 90 percent, as I have mentioned.
Of course, we will continue working to improve the system of medical care in this area and to introduce new approaches in diagnostics and treatment. In particular, next year the Rogachev Centre plans to complete the nuclear medicine building, and by 2024 we will open paediatric oncology and haematology centres in several Russian cities, specifically Voronezh, Kazan, Ufa, Rostov-on-Don and Krasnodar, so that every child who is diagnosed with this dangerous disease can receive high-tech quality assistance in full and as soon as possible. Saving the lives and health of our children, and hence the future of the country depends on this.
Another vital goal is to make the truly revolutionary achievements in medical research in Russia and abroad work for the people, and to use them increasingly more in the area of paediatric oncology, haematology and immunology.
I know that you will be discussing these complicated scientific and practical matters at your conference.
I would like to wish you every success and to thank you for your devotion to duty. I have no doubt that your selfless work and your warm and caring attitude towards the children will be instrumental in helping them overcome their diseases.
I wish you every success, good health and all the very best.
Topics
Children
Healthcare
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2021, 10:00
Text version