Events
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
The President held a videoconference meeting on current issues with permanent members of the Security Council.
November 9, 2021
16:55
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 2
At the meeting with permanent members of the Security Council (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
Deputy prime ministers Yury Borisov
and Tatyana Golikova
, Healthcare Minister Mikhail Murashko
, Transport Minister Vitaly Savelyev
, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
and Head of the Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare – Chief State Sanitary Doctor of the Russian Federation Anna Popova
were also invited to the meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
We have two items on the agenda today.
The first one concerns the implementation of the basic principles of Russia’s state border policy. I will say right off that much has been done in this area in recent years, as we will discuss in a moment.
The second item on the agenda concerns the COVID-19 incidence rate and measures to reduce it. I would like to hear from you about the impact of measures we have taken. I am referring to the non-working days that ended recently. We will also discuss plans for the near future in this regard.
For this, I asked Tatyana Golikova, Healthcare Minister Mikhail Murashko, Anna Popova and Sergei Sobyanin to join our discussion.
I suggest that we begin with the second item, so we do not keep them waiting and do not feel pressed for time when discussing the first item, as well as current matters related to ensuring security in Russia across various spheres and environments.
We are dealing with these issues on a daily basis, and we have discussed all these topics with many of you this morning. We will talk about the current situation with permanent members of the Security Council in more detail.
Shall we start? Our invited colleagues are ready. Ms Golikova, go ahead please.
<…>
See also
Security Council News
Topics
Healthcare
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: November 9, 2021, 16:55
Text version