Events
The Commander-in-Chief of the Navy, Nikolai Yevmenov, reported on the course of the comprehensive Arctic expedition to the President
March 26, 2021
17:15
The Commander-in-Chief of the Navy, Nikolai Yevmenov, reported on the course of the comprehensive Arctic expedition to the President.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Yevmenov, good afternoon.
Commander-in-Chief of the Navy Nikolai Yevmenov: Good afternoon, Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation!
Vladimir Putin: The Arctic expedition that you will report on is unprecedented in the history of both the Soviet period and the current history of the Russian Federation. Please give us this report.
Nikolai Yevmenov: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief! The Umka-2021 comprehensive Arctic expedition has been held by the Chief Command of the Navy and has been ongoing since March 20, this month. A package of operational and training, and research and practical undertakings of different designations is being carried out under an integrated plan in the polar regions for the first time.
In all, the plan provides for 43 basic objectives. The expedition venue is Franz Josef Land archipelago, notably Alexandra Land and the adjacent ice-covered waters.
The average temperature there now is −25 to −30 degrees Celsius; the ice thickness is up to 1.5 metres, with winds up to 32 metres per second.
Over 600 military and civilian personnel are involved in the expedition, as well as about 200 pieces of military and special equipment and weapons.
At this point, 35 objectives have been fulfilled under the plan and eight are still being carried out in line with the plan.
The following tasks have been fulfilled for the first time in the history of the Navy: three atomic missile carriers arrived on schedule within a region with a radius of 300 metres after breaking through 1.5 metre thick ice under an integrated plan; two MiG-31s flew into the polar region including midair refueling, during which they passed over the geographical North Pole in two directions; and we practiced torpedo firing from a nuclear-powered submarine under the ice. After the training torpedo stopped beneath the ice, it was located with technical equipment and retrieved to the surface.
Also, an Arctic motorised rifle brigade unit conducted a tactical exercise in unfamiliar terrain in adverse weather conditions while it was detached from the main base.
As a result, the weapons, the military and special equipment proved out their technical specifications in the high latitudes and low temperatures. The exercises are being carried out as planned.
Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, the practice of conducting integrated Arctic expeditions by the Navy will continue. Most importantly, finding new, even less explored territories will be the main objective of future expeditions.
This concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: These combat training, research and practical measures have demonstrated the Russian Navy’s abilities and preparedness to operate in the harsh northern latitudes. The submarine, military transport aircraft and fighter aircraft crews, as well as Arctic motorised rifle units have shown improvements in combat training in the harsh Arctic environment. Our domestic weapons’ high combat capability and reliability in extreme weather conditions have been confirmed.
I want the Commander-in-Chief of the Navy to convey my words of gratitude to the personnel who participated in the expedition and the exercises, for their courage, dedication and professionalism.
The integrated Arctic expeditions, studies and exploration of the Far North in order to ensure Russia’s military security must be continued.
Thank you, Mr Yevmenov.
Nikolai Yevmenov: Yes, Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief! We will complete all the assignments.
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 26, 2021, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Russia – Land of Opportunity autonomous non-profit organisation
The President attended a meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Russia – Land of Opportunity autonomous non-profit organisation.
March 26, 2021
16:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 8
At the meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Russia – Land of Opportunity autonomous non-profit organisation.
The participants discussed the performance of the Russia – Land of Opportunity platform over the past three years, including its flagship projects Leaders of Russia, the Digital Breakthrough, Bolshaya Peremena, the Masters of Hospitality, I Am a Professional, Professional Training 2.0, TopBLOG, Teacher of the Future and Mentorship.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends and colleagues.
I am very happy to see you all.
Today, we are holding the second meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Russia – Land of Opportunity autonomous non-profit organisation. To be honest, this organisation has already become a broad public movement, so to say, because, over the past three years, five million people have been involved in various events linked with this platform.
We wanted very much to create an additional opportunity for young people, to enable them to realise their potential where they live and study, while relying on their talents and capabilities. To my mind, this task has been largely accomplished. And it should be said that, on the whole, this is yielding results. Frankly speaking, I never expected that, to the best of my knowledge, two governors, several deputy ministers and deputy heads of federal agencies, the mayors of major cities and the heads of our largest companies would all use this platform.
I know that all those who have gathered here in Novo-Ogaryovo today, as well as our colleagues with whom we are working online, have their own ideas of specific achievements and their own assessments and proposals. This concerns high-priority issues, our future progress and ways of facilitating this platform’s efficient use.
In my opinion, the so-called social mobility is being successfully used during this work. As I have already said, schoolchildren and university students are able to use their best qualities in order to achieve the goals that they have set for themselves.
In any event, this is a very good opportunity to make a start and get off to a good start. We have very many aspects, including artificial intelligence, healthcare and volunteering. You name it, we’ve got it, but all these things are in high demand, and there are no unnecessary items on this list.
Let’s talk about all this. I am very happy to see you, and I suggest launching our discussion and conversation.
<…>
Topics
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 26, 2021, 16:20
Text versionEvents
Security Council meeting
The President held a Security Council meeting via video conference, during which the participants reviewed the draft Basic Principles of State Policy of the Russian Federation on International Information Security.
March 26, 2021
18:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
At a meeting of the Russian Federation Security Council (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by permanent members of the Security Council, including Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev
, Minister of the Interior Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
, and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
and a number of other invitees.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues!
Today we will review issues related to the state policy on international information security. This is an urgent and extremely important topic.
The 21st century is referred to as a time of breakthroughs in information technology. As we are well aware, this technology is conquering practically all areas of life. These include new systems of transmission and global communications, the so-called Internet of Things and artificial intelligence, e-government services and digital medicine. The traditional areas of activities by the state, society and business are undergoing radical transformation and completely new opportunities are being created for developing the economy and the labour market and improving living standards.
At the same time, new technological solutions engender new risks. We are seeing that the global digital space is often becoming a venue for tough information confrontation, dishonest competition and cyberattacks. All this is fundamentally changing the situation in the world. The digital environment is being used by international terrorists and organised crime. There are many potential threats to common, global security and to individual countries, in part, to their sovereignty and national interests.
Russia was among the first countries to have urged the international community to join efforts in this area which was new for civilisation. Back in 1998, Russia spearheaded a relevant resolution which was adopted by the UN General Assembly. In fact, it was a call for broad-based cooperation in fighting common threats in the cyberspace, primarily attempts to use the latest technology to disrupt international peace and stability.
Moreover, largely thanks to our efforts, information security has become an item on the UN General Assembly’s agenda, and the adoption of a relevant resolution has become an annual event.
Our approaches to forming a global regime for ensuring information security and developing clear-cut rules remain open, transparent and unaltered.
We believe it is necessary to conclude universal international legal agreements designed to prevent conflicts and build a mutually beneficial partnership in the global cyberspace, to use it as much as possible for the sustainable development of each nation, and to create favourable conditions for scientific research and the rapid implementation of the most advanced technological solutions for staving off potential risks.
It is important to jointly develop and agree on universal and fair-for-all rules on the responsible behaviour of states in the cyberspace with clear and easy-to-follow criteria for acceptable and unacceptable actions and to make them legally binding. In other words, each country must strictly follow these rules.
At the same time, we advocate the inviolability of the digital sovereignty of states. This means that each country can independently determine the variables for regulating its information space and the corresponding infrastructure.
To reiterate, we support equality, order and mutual respect in the cyber sphere, as well as its progressive development. Of course, all interested partners should be able to join in the dialogue on this important agenda.
The Basic Principles of State Policy in International Information Security adopted in 2013 was an important phase in this most important, strategic area. The document defined our main goal – to contribute to the formation of a global system for the protection of the international information landscape.
The implementation of this document has led to a number of significant practical steps. In 2018, most of the UN member states approved the Russia-sponsored resolution on international information security, and that resolution was the first to formalise the aforementioned rules of conduct in this area.
In 2019, a specialised negotiating mechanism was launched under the auspices of the UN, also created at Russia’s initiative – the Open-Ended Working Group.
We proposed a few more interesting and forward-looking ideas in this area, including the development of a global convention on the fight against cybercrime, which were supported by many countries.
Today, it is important to be more effective and more active in all the key areas. This is what the new edition of the Basic Principles of State Policy in International Information Security, which we will discuss today, should be doing. The previous one expired in 2020.
In this regard, I would like to highlight several points that I see as crucial.
First, in the updated document, it is important to preserve the continuity of our strategic policy on preventing conflicts in the information landscape. It needs to reaffirm our commitment to the previously declared state policy goals. At the same time, we will need to clarify its priorities with due account for current realities, and adjust them where necessary.
Second, we need to more energetically promote Russia’s initiatives, and intensify our role in the negotiation process.
Let me emphasise – Russia, as before, is open to dialogue and constructive interaction with all its partners, both in a bilateral format and at international platforms and forums, primarily, of course, at the United Nations.
As I have said, in the past few years the UN has paid serious and increasing attention to the issues of ensuring security and developing the international information space. It is necessary to work to turn Russian ideas and proposals in this universal organisation into specific resolutions.
Of course, it is very important to give priority to the development of dialogue on these issues with our closest partners in the CSTO, CIS, SCO and BRICS.
The third point: we must concentrate on developing mechanisms for practical cooperation in ensuring the security of the global information space. The scale for partnership in this respect is exceptionally broad: exchange of experience and joint response to computer incidents, personnel training and research.
We must certainly help our colleagues, including, of course, our closest partners, build information security systems, give them the relevant technology and equipment, and investigate cybercrime through a concerted effort.
And the fourth point, in conclusion, for the effective implementation of the government policy described in the new version of the foundations, we must more actively use the opportunities of scientific and expert circles and the business community, including, of course, the National Association of International Information Security.
To promote Russia’s position, it is important to strengthen existing international discussion venues and create new ones both in Russia and abroad. This is a very solid resource that has not realised its full potential.
And, finally, government bodies must conduct systematic and productive activities in this respect. I am primarily referring to the coordinating role of the Security Council and Foreign Ministry personnel and cooperation between targeted interdepartmental groups.
Let’s discuss in detail today how to make this work more effective; we will start with the reports.
I give the floor to Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev.
<…>
See also
Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev’s statement for the media following Security Council meeting
March 26, 2021
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: March 26, 2021, 18:20
Text version