Events
Meeting on key projects in civil aircraft engineering
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on the implementation of key projects in civil aircraft engineering as part of the International Aviation and Space Salon MAKS-2021.
July 20, 2021
15:35
Zhukovsky, Moscow Region
1 of 5
Meeting on key projects in civil aircraft engineering.
The meeting was attended by First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, as well as heads of the Russian Union of Aviation Industrialists, the Ural Works of Civil Aviation, the Russian Helicopters holding company, the United Aircraft Corporation, Promsvyazbank, and Rostec State Corporation.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon again, colleagues.
It is Mr Slyusar’s birthday. Many happy returns, one more event today.
We have just attended the opening of the 15th International Aviation and Space Salon, toured some of the exhibits, seen new products from the Russian aviation industry, and talked with designers and manufacturers. As a matter of fact, some of our colleagues are also taking part in this meeting today, people actually working in the industry.
Let's discuss how the key projects in civil aircraft engineering are being implemented and review the comprehensive plan for the industry’s development until 2030.
We will consider factors that will shape the demand for aircraft in the next decade, the growth prospects for production capacity, and we will see how the corresponding part of the state order is progressing in this context.
For Russia, with its vast territory, civil aircraft engineering has always been and will always be one of the undisputed priorities, because this industry’s efficiency is key to various regions’ transport accessibility and connectivity, to greater passenger and cargo traffic, people’s mobility, Russia’s higher export potential, and of course, the stability of our aviation enterprises, research institutes and design bureaus that employ over 400,000 highly qualified specialists.
All these years, we focused on modernising the aviation industry, increasing its funding and making its products more competitive. We always focused on promoting priority civilian aircraft projects, primarily modern airliners. We are seeing them today: the MC-21 medium-haul airliner, the Sukhoi Superjet-100, the Ilyushin Il-114, L-410, the Baikal light multipurpose aircraft, as well as the Kamov Ka-62, Mil Mi-38, and Ansat helicopters.
Today, I would like to ask you to tell us about the certification of these aircraft, beginning of deliveries, production plans and the creation of a system of after-sales service.
I would like to repeat that it is important to ensure the stable and sustained operation of aircraft enterprises, especially as we continue dealing with the COVID-19 epidemic.
We held a meeting on aviation industry development in May 2020 for this, and we adopted additional measures for supporting the sector. The goal was to facilitate demand for Russian-made aircraft, including through state guarantees for the purchase of 59 Sukhoi Superjet-100 airliners and subsidies for reducing flight-hour maintenance costs, as well as the provision of state guarantees for the purchase of 66 Russian-made helicopters for the emergency airlift service.
Today, we will discuss the implementation of these decisions, review how many planes and helicopters have been purchased through state guarantee mechanisms, and discuss unresolved issues and other matters, if any. 
In addition, at the May meeting, the Government received instructions to draft and approve a programme for a state order for domestic civilian aircraft to 2030. Today, I would like to hear the status of this programme.
Let me repeat, it is necessary to clearly determine the future plans of aircraft producers up to at least 2030, as well as their responsibility for commitments on supply schedules, pricing, quality and servicing the equipment. It is essential to fund these plans properly from various sources. This is also one of the main items on our agenda today.
It is also necessary to draft proposals on supporting Russian-made aircraft sales and follow-up maintenance. This will ensure airline demand for these aircraft.
Of course, it is important to support performance reliability and the proper functionality of this new aircraft fleet, including by maintaining the schedules for the supply of engines and parts.
We have repeatedly talked about the need for this work, and I would like to ask you to report on your results in this important area.
Let’s move on to the discussion of these issues.
<…>
See also
Visiting MAKS-2021 International Aviation and Space Salon
July 20, 2021
Topics
Industry
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 20, 2021, 15:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
Vladimir Putin held a meeting in the Kremlin with President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev, who is in Russia on a working visit.
July 20, 2021
18:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Eid Mubarak! Happy holiday [Eid al-Adha]! My congratulations to you. I wish you all the best.
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
: Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: We will celebrate a big holiday next year – 30 years of diplomatic relations.
I would like to thank you for coming here. Thank God, we are restoring our relations after the coronavirus. I am referring primarily to the economy. Last year we saw a decline, and now we have confident growth, a recovery.
Russia is confidently in the lead in the economy. Our intergovernmental commission is working actively, there are many areas of cooperation.
We plan to send our representative delegation to your country in the near future. It will deal with these issues in Baku. They meet regularly at various venues. It will be a mixed group covering different spheres, such as industry, transport, infrastructure, some other issues.
We are cooperating in countering the coronavirus and doing so more and more vigorously. I think we have already supplied 100,000 [vaccine doses].
Ilham Aliyev: Even more than that.
Vladimir Putin: We are working on launching joint production in Azerbaijan.
Of course, a settlement in the region remains one of the most important issues. I know that you certainly pay a lot of attention to this important matter, and I would like to thank you for finding compromise solutions in this area. They are always the most complicated ones, but if we want a settlement – and we all want it – we must follow this path. Up to now, we have managed to do this, and I would like to thank you for this.
I am very happy to see you. Welcome.
Ilham Aliyev: Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, first of all, for the invitation. I am also very happy to see you. This is a good opportunity to discuss issues of cooperation once again.
Thank you for your greetings. I would like to use this opportunity to congratulate all Russian Muslims on Eid al-Adha. This is a holiday of solidarity, a holiday of togetherness.
Of course, I fully agree with your assessment of our bilateral agenda. We are moving forward with confidence. Our trade has grown in the first six months of the year. This is very important because last year it dropped by over 10 percent.
We are actively building cooperation in transport and shipping transits. I was told that this year freight volumes on the North-South transport corridor increased 20 percent over last year. So, the corridor is already seeing impressive volume.
I would like to thank you for your assistance in countering the coronavirus. We have received over 200,000 Sputnik V vaccine doses from Russia and we are expecting more. I know that many would like to get this vaccine because it has proven its efficiency. Of course, it is probably very difficult to supply everyone, but we are friends and partners and I would like to thank you again for giving us priority among your vaccine recipients.
I would like to tell you that this year our Baku branch of Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University had its first graduates. This is an important event. Time goes quickly and there are over a thousand students at our two branches – of Moscow and Sechenov universities. More than 15,000 Azerbaijani students study in Russia and 16,000 Azerbaijani students study at the Russian language faculty in Azerbaijan.
So, a large number of Azerbaijani youth is already linked to Russia by language, contacts and education. I think this is very important in transferring our experience to the younger generation.
Of course, there is the issue of the post-conflict situation in the region. I would also like to thank you for your permanent attention to this issue and your personal involvement in resolving vital and sensitive issues. We are always in touch.
I believe in the past eight months after the end of hostilities, our personal contacts – in Moscow in January and by telephone – played a major role in stabilising the situation. We want the post-conflict period to be as painless as possible. I think we are coping with this through a concerted effort.
Thank you for your invitation once again, and now let’s discuss the important issues of cooperation and regional problems.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Geography
Azerbaijan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Aliyev Ilham
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 20, 2021, 18:50
Text versionEvents
Visiting MAKS-2021 International Aviation and Space Salon
Vladimir Putin attended the opening ceremony of the 15th International Aviation and Space Salon MAKS-2021.
July 20, 2021
13:35
Zhukovsky, Moscow Region
3 of 24
At the International Aviation and Space Salon MAKS-2021.
The President toured the Salon’s exhibition featuring advanced models of Russian aircraft, equipment and components. For example, he was shown a new Sukhoi single-engine light tactical fighter.
While at the Salon, Vladimir Putin also watched some demonstration flights, including those carried out by aerobatic display teams.
The International Aviation and Space Salon MAKS is one of the world's largest aviation forums. This year’s event is attended by about 290 foreign companies from more than 50 countries in person or remotely. The aviation salon is taking place in Zhukovsky outside Moscow from July 20 to 25.
* * *
Speech at MAKS-2021 opening ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues, friends. Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am delighted to welcome everyone to the opening of the 15th International Aviation and Space Salon.
Over the past three decades or so, MAKS has become an important and popular platform to present the most recent achievements of domestic and foreign aviation. It sparks lively discussions about the future of the global aircraft industry. It is a tradition to offer an exciting flight programme, and contracts concluded during the event open up wide opportunities for cooperation and the implementation of mutually beneficial projects.
It is vital that this year, despite the difficulties caused by the coronavirus pandemic, MAKS has lived up to its international status, as over 250 foreign companies from more than 50 countries are present at its sites directly or remotely.
I would like to emphasise that our neighbour and ally, the Republic of Kazakhstan, is Russia's partner country at the current aviation forum. We intend to enhance cooperation with our Kazakhstani colleagues and other members of the Eurasian Economic Union in such high-tech industry as aircraft-building.
Industrial facilities in both countries are already implementing a number of promising projects. Helicopters of the Mi family are assembled in Kazakhstan. Roscosmos is promoting the Baiterek joint project. Its goal is to create an organisational and technical system for launching spacecraft from the legendary Baikonur Cosmodrome using an environmentally friendly launch vehicle.
Russia is certainly open for cooperation with all interested countries in aviation and astronautics. Improving flight safety, reducing aviation’s impact on the environment, and studying extra-terrestrial space are the fields in which researchers, designers and other specialists from different countries should unite to achieve new breakthrough results.
Everything that we can see in Zhukovsky today shows vividly that Russian aviation has an impressive development potential, and that the national aircraft industry continues to create new competitive aviation products.
Russian air carriers are acquiring modern Superjet airliners. The brand-new MC-21 passenger airliner is to start flying soon. The current Aviation and Space Salon MAKS features the MC-21’s modified version with a Russian-made PD-14 engine for the first time. This aircraft will be followed by the Ilyushin Il-114–300 regional airliner, the Baikal light-engine multipurpose aircraft and the long-awaited new helicopters.
I am confident that modern, effective and safe Russian-made technology will help Russian airlines meet the growing passenger demand, and that it will occupy a worthy place on the global market and will therefore strengthen Russia’s position as a recognised leader of the aerospace sector.
We also have a lot to offer to our partners in the field of fundamental research and R&D projects. In the Year of Science and Technology, I would like to point out that Russian research agencies have scored successes in various high-tech fields, and a considerable part of these achievements are represented at MAKS stands and open sites. This includes solutions in the field of electric and hybrid power stations and low-noise civilian supersonic transport (SST). We are actively developing the latter.
MAKS is looking into the future that belongs to unmanned aircraft and robotic complexes, as well as the use of artificial intelligence in aviation. The Aviation and Space Salon MAKS also features all these aspects on a large scale.
And, of course, we strive to actively involve young and promising professionals in the aerospace sector. In this connection, I would like to note that one stage of the Personnel for the Digital Industry national contest is taking place on the sidelines of the Aviation and Space Salon. The contest aims to create a system for the earlier-than-planned training and retraining of specialists for the aviation industry and radio-electronic sector that will largely determine the future of Russian aviation.
Friends,
At all times, true leaders are distinguished by the ability to perceive challenges as new opportunities. Importantly, the organisers of this [15th] anniversary aviation forum have managed to combine direct contacts and operations at stationary stands with video conferences and virtual displays. All of this is creating new prospects for presenting achievements in aviation and aircraft building and for new contacts and interesting discussions.
I would like to thank the organisers and participants of this forum for their extensive work. Lying ahead are several days of a packed business programme, scientific symposiums, demonstrations of new models, and performances by the best air display teams.
At the end, of course, I would like to wish all of us success, but I cannot but mention one more thing. It so happens that this year our country is celebrating the air festival, MAKS-2021, and yet another festival – I will speak about it shortly – practically at the same time. I am referring to the festival celebrated by a considerable number of Russian citizens – Muslims. Today, they have one of their principal religious festivals, Eid al-Adha.
I would like to note that approximately 15–20 percent of Muslims are employed in aviation and the aircraft industry. Our major, leading engine- and aircraft-building companies operate in predominantly Muslim-populated regions of the Russian Federation. There are many people who are celebrating this double festival among pilots and airmen as well.
I would like to take this occasion to extend my best wishes to all of them on this.
And, of course, I would like once again to wish success to the MAKS aviation forum, as well as a pleasant and useful pastime and good joint work to all of you.
Thank you for your time.
See also
Meeting on key projects in civil aircraft engineering
July 20, 2021
Geography
Moscow Region
Topics
Industry
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 20, 2021, 13:35
Text version