Events
Meeting with Moscow Region Governor Andrei Vorobyov
President of Russia Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Moscow Region Governor Andrei Vorobyov. The Head of Moscow Region informed the President about the situation in the field of education and healthcare. They also discussed gas supply projects and transport infrastructure matters.
October 18, 2021
14:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with Moscow Region Governor Andrei Vorobyov.
Andrei Vorobyov
noted that Moscow Region continued to expand, that its population was growing, and that local towns had to be taken care of. For example, the number of children has soared by 500,000 in the past eight years. Construction of 50 schools began in 2019, and 50 schools, as well as 15 extensions, are to open by late 2021. There is still a shortage of schools, the Governor admitted, and 50 more are now being built with federal support and using funds from the regional budget. Kindergartens are under construction. A cornerstone has been laid for the first children’s hospital in Moscow Region. This modern hospital employing top specialists will treat children.
In additional, the Governor discussed the vaccination of the regional population against the COVID-19 virus and the creation of a so-called “social treasury” that will allow people to obtain government services proactively and automatically, and he also mentioned digital education projects for senior citizens.
The discussion also covered the implementation of a social gas supply project in Moscow Region. Under this project, free gas pipeline offshoots will extend towards household boundaries.
Vladimir Putin raised another matter linked with road traffic and noted that much had been done to prevent congestion. This includes construction of road interchanges, especially those near mainline capacities; however, some problems still remain.
Andrei Vorobyov thanked the President for the Central Ring Road that is now operating at full capacity. New enterprises, especially logistics facilities linked with e-commerce, are opening around it.
The President also said that he knew there were certain demands for additional funding linked with the construction of interchanges. He explained that he had discussed this matter with the Government which would find the ten billion rubles required for the region.
Geography
Moscow Region
Topics
Healthcare
Regions
School
Social services
1 more
Persons
Vorobyov Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 18, 2021, 14:05
Text version