Events
Meeting with Presidential Commissioner for Children's Rights Anna Kuznetsova
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Presidential Commissioner for Children's Rights Anna Kuznetsova ahead of Children's Day, marked on June 1. The children's ombudsman delivered her annual report on children's rights in Russia.
May 31, 2021
12:30
Sochi
With Presidential Commissioner for Children’s Rights Anna Kuznetsova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Kuznetsova, we are meeting on the eve of Children's Day. I know that you have some proposals directly related to child safety, and some other matters of a broader nature, which also concern this topic.
Let us discuss what you have. Go ahead, please.
Presidential Commissioner for Children's Rights Anna Kuznetsova
: Mr President,
Firstly, I am delighted to have this opportunity to discuss the main aspects of child protection, and the work of the Commissioner for Children’s Rights. This report on the past year’s performance includes specific children's stories, our struggles and proposals, as well as yet unresolved problems. I hope that the departments and agencies these proposals are addressed to will review them in due faith. We have put a lot of time and effort into working them out.
I would like to congratulate everyone on Children's Day, especially because this year we are celebrating it in special circumstances. The new amendments to the Constitution have been adopted, and the share of minors in the total population has reached a ten-year high. The number of large families has also grown, along with the total number of children they have, so now almost one-fifth of children in Russia are from large families.
The number of orphans has decreased by four percent in Russia, which is also a positive trend. And for the first time in many years, the number of crimes against minors has gone down by 9.1 percent.
I must say that last year was difficult indeed. It was not easy for us either. We had to navigate the new circumstances while building up the resources we had. The number of complaints to the ombudsman's office increased again, by 7.3 percent.
The number of complaints from minors increased by 36 percent. In some cases, since children's complaints require a special approach, we took off immediately to look into them directly on the spot.
And, of course, we worked in various other directions too, we organised events and monitoring surveys on various matters obtained from people’s appeals and complaints, including bullying or conflicts at school. We inspected the performance of the mediation service, as well as how effective or formal the attitude of educational organisations towards it is.
We assessed the enforcement of the law on public catering services that you initiated. Apart from other violations, we found out the following interesting fact: some schools with two shifts substituted lunch menus with breakfast menus. The cost is different, but the children seem to be well-fed. However, this substitution does not have a very positive influence on the children’s health, all the more so as it violates the law. We teamed up with the Prosecutor-General’s Office to hold large-scale inspections of educational organisations, and the violations we exposed are now being gradually eliminated.
Vladimir Putin: I have already mentioned this. It goes without saying that sanitary physicians should always pay attention to this subtle issue. Nevertheless, parent associations have every right to monitor the organisation of public catering and its quality. And we have to carry this through.
Anna Kuznetsova: Yes, parent feedback is a very good, real and efficient mechanism.
They are operating in different ways, but work is mostly being streamlined, we have the required methodological recommendations, the Council of Fathers, affiliated with the Children’s Rights Commissioner, other parent organisations in the regions and children's rights commissioners have established such commissions that work and provide feedback. There are more or less effective tools, but this mechanism is working today, and this is, indeed, the most efficient mechanism.
We have organised various events. For example, we searched for the relatives of orphans, namely, their great-grandfathers and great-grandmothers, killed during the Great Patriotic War. Orphans find it highly important to have people, whom they can feel proud of.
Vladimir Putin: Of course. 
Anna Kuznetsova: We also held other events, and provided tailored assistance together with the Council of Fathers I have already mentioned and the Association of Family Protection Organisations; we simply tried to help families in need of specific, tailored aid. By the way, the Council of Fathers is already operating in 79 Russian regions. They have shown very good results, with large sporting events and mentorship. Now the regions are introducing Father’s Day one after another. I think it is a good practice and it is important to spread it.
Vladimir Putin: When were these councils first established?
Anna Kuznetsova: The Council of Fathers was established about three years ago. To be honest, we did not expect such a scale as we have today: thousands of fathers across the country. They have various spheres of activity now. For example, they help fathers who have lost their wives and now have to bring up on their own one, two, or even as many as four children. When a mother dies giving birth for the fourth time, the father, in fact, is left with four children.
There is a nuance in this sphere: fathers seldom ask for help. This is a masculine trait.
Vladimir Putin: Yes. Men try to cope with difficulties all by themselves.
Anna Kuznetsova: Yes, this is true. Once they helped to build a fence, and finished with a complete renovation of the house: fathers united and helped together. Children’s ombudsmen help to find information about those who are in need of support.
We have also worked in other areas, too. In fact, we have improved the effectiveness of our administration. We had to re-direct it under the new conditions. We have developed criteria of childhood quality; this is a special approach that would make it possible to collect data from various agencies to create a picture of what is happening to children in a separate Russian region. Now this work is still in the overview stage, but some useful criteria have already been developed, and we can say that this works.
The most interesting fact: thanks to this work we have found out that various statistical data from different agencies requires serious revision. It cannot be used together because it is collected in a different way.
We turned to the Government and found support. Several agencies have backed us so far, and I hope that this will result in the improvement of statistical accounting. It is important for us to have feedback about what is happening.
We have also been working in other areas. We have flown to Syria six times and brought back 144 children. Despite the pandemic, together with the Government we have managed to find an algorithm to address this issue in such conditions. We have made 158 DNA tests.
We are in the process of intense preparations at the moment. These are the last days before the Vector of Childhood Forum, a potential landmark event for us. We have been waiting for two years; it was canceled because of the pandemic, and now we are going to hold it in Kuzbass, thanks to support of the regional government and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. We will bring together all the best achievements for children including services and initiatives provided by public organisations and government agencies.
For the first time, we will be inviting parents and children, not just experts, to this platform, where these initiatives will be showcased. Because parents and children are the ones who should see what has been done for them.
Together with our colleagues, we have prepared several proposals on child safety, on supporting families with disabled children and on the development of children's content. We have had requests from parents who would like to see a lot of creative things around their children, and…
Vladimir Putin: …and kindness.
Anna Kuznetsova: Yes. I will talk about this separately.
Now I would like to say, Mr President, that the new amendments to the Constitution have paved the way for a whole range of measures to support families with children. New benefits have been introduced, new payments for schoolchildren, the law on school meals, which has already been mentioned, and the law on tutorial work. Family Studies has been introduced in schools as a subject, something we have been insisting on for so long.
I would like to note one very important decision of yours. Not so long ago now, you instructed us to consider which department should be responsible for family and children's issues.
In my opinion, this is a key decision, a very important one, and I really would like the authorised agencies to carry this through as accurately as possible. The problem is the number of complaints concerning child protection authorities and services has increased by 40 percent again.
You might recall a recent story from Moscow Region, where a policeman just decided to follow a little girl, watched a suspicious man, and found a six-year-old child, literally among cats and waste in the rubbish in one of the houses. When I visited her in hospital, she could not even walk, let alone talk. Now she can even run, and there is every reason to believe she will soon find a very good family. This would not have happened if the responsible authorities had not worked proactively and properly.
Orphans become victims of criminal attacks three times more often. This is also unacceptable, especially since there are amendments to the Constitution that impose additional responsibility for orphans on the state. By the way, we have discussed this with the Minister of Science, and special methods have already been developed to proactively detect violence in orphanages. Nevertheless, these amendments are the groundwork for reforming this system, and we really do hope they will be implemented properly.
And I would like to discuss the topics we have been working on, and the proposals we have, Mr President.
<…>
Topics
Children
Persons
Kuznetsova Anna
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 31, 2021, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Launch of Aurus cars serial production facility
Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in the opening ceremony of a serial production facility for Aurus cars in Tatarstan.
May 31, 2021
14:30
Sochi
During the opening ceremony of a serial production facility for Aurus cars in Tatarstan (via videoconference).
Taking part in the ceremony were Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov
, Rostec CEO Sergei Chemezov
and Aurus Director General Adil Shirinov.
The project to develop and begin the serial production of a new unified modular platform and lineup of automobiles based on it started in 2013. The development of the components and cars based on them was carried out with wide international cooperation of automotive manufacturing and engineering enterprises involving leading companies from Europe and Asia. More than 50 Russian enterprises are participating in the project.
As of today, the Aurus lineup includes 15 models of cars and two motorcycles.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends, good afternoon.
It is a pleasure to congratulate you on the opening of the new, up to date capacities for the serial production of Aurus cars in the Republic of Tatarstan. Of course, this is an important event for the Russian automobile industry and Russian industry in general.
I remember how this began and would like to thank those who took part in the implementation of this project, in developing and equipping this industrial site. I am sure that the cars assembled here will be in high demand.
As you are aware, I use these cars and drove them a few times. It is in fact an excellent, high-quality car that complies with all global standards.
You know only too well how much work was gone ahead of today’s ceremony. It involved thousands of experts, such as engineers, constructors, and designers, from everywhere across Russia. And they have succeeded in their job.
We can say that for the first time in Russia’s history, an entire line of executive cars was created from scratch. Among other things, this involved designing a modern, common platform for them, creating a recognisable design that is traditional for executive cars, and forming a part base, which is very important.
I would like to add that the Aurus family of cars was developed in close cooperation with leading car manufacturers and engineering hubs in both Europe and Asia. This expanded the possibilities for acquiring new knowledge and advanced, and in many ways, unique skills. Moreover, everything was done very quickly. And I know that our partners were surprised many times by this and were delighted along with us. All this is extremely important for Russia to develop its own competitive auto industry and a number of related industries.
About 70 percent of the suppliers of parts for Aurus cars are our Russian companies. This is a good chance for them to master new technologies and get additional orders.
We hope that the serial production of Aurus cars will strengthen the presence of Russian cars in the international market and will give us an opportunity to increase the export of high-tech products.
The opening of a production site in Tatarstan is certainly another impetus for the region’s development. Tatarstan is already among the leaders in many respects, and it will take another step forward with the emergence of modern jobs and an increase in tax revenues, which are necessary for solving social problems.
I would like to thank once again everyone who worked on the creation of the new production facility, as well as on the development of Aurus cars in general. My congratulations to the staff on the launch of work. I wish you all further success and all the very best.
Thank you.
Colleagues, you have the floor.
Members of the opening ceremony of a serial production facility for Aurus cars in Tatarstan (via videoconference).
Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov: Thank you very much.
Mr President, colleagues,
Today, as we continue to develop the Aurus project, we are launching full-cycle production of Senat vehicles, from body-welding operations to final testing. Each vehicle to roll off the assembly line will feature a range of custom options for each client, including colour combinations and interior options.
Given this client-oriented approach, we will gradually expand production to 5,000 vehicles annually, and the model range will also increase. For example, Aurus will introduce the Komendant next year, which is the long-awaited SUV model.
Mr President, all of this plant’s technical operations are part of an integral IT system. This is basically a convincing example of an industrial network that integrates all production processes at every stage, that is, from accepting materials and components to making digital adjustment to units and systems. This will make it possible to quickly upgrade the assembly line and to change the platform itself. I would like to use this opportunity to thank our Russian and foreign industrial partners, as well as component suppliers, for contributing to the development of this project.
This modern plant is located in Alabuga, one of the most rapidly developing special economic zones. Of course, Mr Minnikhanov who works hard to involve investors in creating high-tech production facilities has personally contributed to this project to a considerable extent.
Mr President, allow me to thank you for this opportunity to involve our ministry and the team of developers from the Central Scientific Research Automobile and Automotive Engine Institute (NAMI) in implementing your idea for the Aurus project. You always support young people, and this project involves a team of young and highly professional specialists who continue to expand this project still further, as per your instruction. They have already developed a prototype of the Aurus luxury vehicle with a hydrogen fuel supply system. I would like to wish the project participants success in implementing these plans.
Thank you.
If you allow me, I would like to give the floor to Head of the Republic of Tatarstan, Mr Minnikhanov, who will discuss the role of the industrial segment in the Republic of Tatarstan.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Minnikhanov, you have the floor.
Head of the Republic of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov: Mr President,
Thank you very much for entrusting our republic with the mass-production of the Aurus vehicle. We have already gained a reputation of being an automobile republic; our KAMAZ lorries are famous all over the world. And I am confident that Aurus will become as popular a brand as KAMAZ, and that we will make the Russian Federation famous for this.
Of course, this project would not have been possible without the Government’s support. Resolution No. 1119 allowed us to carry it out and prepare an industrial site in a special economic zone. Of course, we are very grateful to our partners, the Tawazun company, with which we maintain close cooperation.
Mr President, thank you very much. We will work to make Aurus a very successful project.
Dmitry Manturov: Mr President, allow me to give the floor to Aurus Director Adil Shirinov.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, please.
Aurus Director-General Adil Shirinov: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Allow me to thank you on behalf of the entire friendly Aurus team for the high trust accorded to it, and the opportunity to take part in this project. I would also like to express our deep gratitude to Mr Manturov and Mr Minnikhanov for their confidence and support in implementing this project, and to assure you that we are ready for the next stages of this impressive project.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Dmitry Manturov: Mr President, allow me to launch the production line.
Vladimir Putin: You have my permission.
During the opening ceremony of a serial production facility for Aurus cars in Tatarstan (via videoconference).
(Production launched.)
My congratulations to you once again.
Indeed, many problems have been resolved during this work: a new engine and a new transmission were designed; a special aluminium casting technique was mastered, and the production of automotive grade leather was developed. As I have mentioned, domestic content is at about 70 percent. I hope the first vehicles will be available in June as planned.
But I would like to draw your attention to one point. If we consider all the contractors involved in this process, by 2022, domestic content must reach 80 percent. I am referring to all involved in the manufacturing process. Right now, you are at 53 percent. There is quite a gap between 53 and 80 and I would like you to pay attention to this. I know the Ministry of Industry and Trade is continuously working on this issue. However, considering that we have many Russian contractors, about 100 companies in all, it is necessary to work with each of them and encourage every company to raise the level of localisation. I would simply like to point this out.
But in general, this is a great accomplishment that has been reached in record time. I would like to thank all of you again and congratulate you on this achievement.
All the best to you!
Thank you very much.
Geography
Republic of Tatarstan
Topics
Industry
Regions
Persons
Manturov Denis
Minnikhanov Rustam
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 31, 2021, 14:30
Text version