Events
Meeting with permanent members of Security Council
Vladimir Putin held a meeting via videoconference with permanent members of the Security Council.
April 9, 2021
16:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
At the meeting via videoconference with permanent members of the Security Council.
Attending the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
, and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
See also
News of the Security Council
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
Today I suggest we consider matters related to information exchange, problems with the dissemination of information, including contacts with our foreign partners in this area. Information is an extremely important part of modern reality, as an area of activity; I mean all things related to concerns of mutual interest of course. I am referring to security, the environment and epidemic response efforts. We will consider these problems today.
We have a speaker. Let us get started and discuss the draft of the corresponding resolution. Go ahead, please.
<…>
Topics
Information society
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: April 9, 2021, 16:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Sergei Menyailo
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Sergei Menyailo via videoconference. During the meeting, the President told him about his decision to appoint him Acting Head of the North Ossetia-Alania Republic.
April 9, 2021
14:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Working meeting with Sergei Menyailo (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Menyailo, the topic of our current conversation and meeting is clear. I do not have any special questions for you because I already know almost everything. I know your biography, your work and service. In fact, I have only one question: are you ready for the suggested position? Do you want it personally?
Sergei Menyailo
: Mr President, I am ready for work. You know by now I am always ready to fulfil the tasks you set. Thank you for your trust. I will try to do all I can to justify it.
See also
Sergei Menyailo appointed Acting Head of North Ossetia–Alania Republic
April 9, 2021
Vladimir Putin: You are no stranger to the republic. In fact, it is your homeland. What are your priority tasks?
Sergei Menyailo: Mr President, probably like all of us, I have never lost touch with my homeland. Therefore, I know the situation in the republic, the condition it is in, the potential that it certainly has and the problems that there are today not only in the North Ossetia-Alania Republic.
The republic has potential in many areas. Its geographical location, climate, recreation areas and natural resources make the development of these areas possible, in particular, health resorts and tourism that were advanced industries in the USSR, as well as the agro-industrial sector. Obviously, the coronavirus epidemic has exposed shortcomings and problems in the healthcare system. The authorities of the North Ossetia-Alania Republic will give priority to these areas in their work.
Together with the implementation of national projects, this can create conditions for sustainable socioeconomic development in the republic. To be able to make use of this potential, I believe that we should draft an individual comprehensive programme of socioeconomic development. The Russian Government has adopted such a decision for 10 regions, which are already drafting their own programmes, three of them in the Siberian Federal District. Some programmes are still being drafted, while others have been submitted for approval. Therefore, Mr President, I am asking you to add the Republic of North Ossetia – Alania to the list of regions allowed to draft individual comprehensive development programmes. We have sufficient experience of doing this.
The implementation of these measures, including the national projects and an individual comprehensive development programme, will give us an opportunity to deal with the tasks you have set before us and to implement your instructions, that is, create new jobs, improve the wellbeing of the people in our multi-ethnic republic, and create comfortable living conditions, including by addressing environmental problems.
One more area I intend to carry on with is the strengthening of mutually beneficial cooperation with the neighbouring republics. I am personally acquainted with the heads of these republics, namely of Stavropol Territory, the Republic of Ingushetia, the Chechen Republic and the Republic of Dagestan. We know each other, and I hope they will help me in my job and we will be working together.
Mr President, I believe that the attainment of these goals will produce the desired effect. The republic has huge human potential, which will also produce a result, if used comprehensively.
Mr President, I am ready to report to you within a month, if you agree, on our achievements regarding the practical spheres and proposals that I have outlined today.
Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your confidence and to say that I will do my best to justify it.
Vladimir Putin: At the end, you mentioned the most important thing: it is true, the republic has always been Russia’s outpost in this region. Its biggest asset is its people who are talented, hard-working, and very courageous. This is how it has been historically. The republic enjoys a high level of education. Therefore, supported by these fundamental characteristics, it is important to achieve the results you have just spoken about by focusing on the areas you specified.
Mr Menyailo, let us meet again in a month and a half and you will then tell me about getting up to speed with local affairs. On our part, we will do our best to support you.
Good luck.
Sergei Menyailo: Yes, Mr President.
As for the tailored comprehensive programme, please instruct the Government to include the republic in it and we will develop the programme based on the measures implemented under national projects.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
Sergei Menyailo: Also, Mr President, as you are aware, I can rely on my experience in the Siberian regions. I plan to engage state-owned corporations, major industrial companies and agricultural holdings in this individual comprehensive programme, including businesses operating in the republic itself. The support measures which were adopted by the Government as per your decision will allow developing small and medium-sized businesses, among other things. Small farms are also a priority for North Ossetia. I will report to you on all these plans in a month.
Vladimir Putin: Fine, Mr Menyailo. The executive order on your appointment will be signed today.
All the best. Good luck.
Geography
Republic of North Ossetia — Alania
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Persons
Menyailo Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 9, 2021, 14:50
Text version