Events
Meeting with President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the Bocharov Ruchey residence in Sochi.
September 29, 2021
14:00
Sochi
3 of 6
With President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Photo: TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
I would like to thank you for accepting my invitation to come to Russia.
The epidemic prevented us from meeting in person for a year and a half, although we did remain in regular contact with one another.
I am delighted that our relations continue to develop and are progressing in a positive manner. Our related agencies are working with each other on a regular basis and in all spheres. I have taken note while preparing for this meeting that last year our trade plunged by over 20 percent, but it increased by over 55 percent during the first nine months of this year, actually eight and a half months. In other words, we have not only made up for our losses during the pandemic year but also surged ahead by over 30 percent.
Our talks are sometimes not easy, but their outcome is always positive. Our agencies have learned to find compromises that benefit both parties.
Investments are increasing on both sides. Accumulated Turkish investments in the Russian economy have reached $1.5 billion, while Russian investments in the Turkish economy reached $6.5 billion. Major projects are being implemented, and everything is proceeding to plan.
TurkStream, a gas pipeline system to Turkey and transit deliveries to South European countries, has been launched in full and is working well. In this connection, I would like to thank you once again for your consistent stand on the construction of this gas pipeline system, which meets the interests of the Turkish people and Russia. Now that we can see quite complicated and turbulent processes on the European gas market, Turkey feels absolutely confident and stable in this respect.
Work on the Akkuyu nuclear power station is also proceeding according to the schedule.
We are cooperating quite successfully on the international stage, including on Syria and our contacts held to coordinate our positions on Libya. The Joint Russian-Turkish centre monitoring the ceasefire on the border between Azerbaijan and Armenia is working actively, and this collaboration is a major guarantee of stability and of coordination of the sides’ positions on the further steps towards reconciliation.
However, there are very many unsettled matters. I am glad to see you in Russia, because it is impossible to discuss everything over the phone.
Welcome.
President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): I would like to thank you as well.
My dear friend, I am happy to be able to meet with you face to face, just as we had planned.
The COVID pandemic has indeed separated many friends. The number of lives it has claimed worldwide is more than 4.5 million. Despite all the measures we are taking, our struggle against the pandemic is ongoing under these difficult circumstances.
First of all, I would like to thank you regarding the matter of forest fires in my country. I would like to thank you for your contribution to the assistance and support we received in combating the fires. I am expressing gratitude to you on behalf of our people and our country. Regrettably, your firefighters, as well as our men perished heroically trying to put out the fires. We spoke about this during one of our telephone conversations, but I would just like to once again express our condolences. A friend in need is a friend indeed, as the saying goes.
It is notable that Turkish-Russian relations, including political, economic, trade, military and defence, as well as industrial ties, are progressing, which is obvious. Despite a minor decline in our mutual trade, they are moving forward positively. I believe that we will continue developing in these spheres, boosting our relations and attaining our good goals.
I would like to express special gratitude for our relations in tourism and for your support to my country in this sphere. It is also gratifying that Russian citizens, Russian people preferred to spend their holidays in my country during that period of time.
You have mentioned this, and I would like to point out that I have visited Akkuyu, where a nuclear power station is being built, and I can say that its construction is proceeding according to plan. I have received reports saying that construction will be completed on time. I believe that we will be able to launch the first reactor of this nuclear power station already next year.
Of course, hard work is ongoing there. I can tell you that 13,000 people are working there: 10,000 Turkish citizens and 3,000 Russian citizens. It should also be said that nearly every one of our personnel have been trained in Russia. This is exactly why our relations continue to grow ever stronger.
Another matter I would like to mention is our joint efforts in the defence industry. We believe that it would be beneficial to discuss this matter.
Some people asked certain questions during the UN General Assembly session. We provided the necessary answers, because some of our plans have been fulfilled in this respect and cannot be reversed.
It is my strong belief that the strengthening of Turkish-Russian relations and their development will be really for us.
Our joint moves on the Syrian problem are very important as well. Peace in that region depends on Turkish-Russian relations.
Thank you very much for this warm welcome.
Vladimir Putin: The pandemic has indeed done a lot of damage to the tourist industry throughout the world. In 2019, 6.8 million Russian tourists visited Turkey, and the figure for 2020 was only 1.5 million. The situation is gradually improving: during the first nine months of this year, 2.5 million Russian tourists were in Turkey. This achievement is also due, in part, to our cooperation in the fight against the coronavirus; we have been collaborating positively, our joint efforts are gathering momentum. I believe that this will help revitalise our economies in general and the tourist industry in particular. We will talk about this in detail.
<…>
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 29, 2021, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting on space industry development
The President chaired a meeting, via videoconference, on the development of the space industry.
September 29, 2021
18:10
Sochi
Meeting on space industry development (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Deputy Prime Ministers Yury Borisov
and Marat Khusnullin
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Presidential Aide – Head of the Presidential Control Directorate Dmitry Shalkov
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation – First Deputy Defence Minister Valery Gerasimov
, General Director of the Roscosmos State Corporation for Space Activities Dmitry Rogozin
, General Director of Progress Rocket and Space Centre Dmitry Baranov, General Designer of the Myasishchev Salyut Design Bureau Sergei Kuznetsov and General Designer of the Korolev Rocket and Space Corporation Energia Vladimir Solovyov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Most of you were present at our meeting last April where we discussed the urgent tasks facing national cosmonautics, as well as the Basic Principles of State Policy in this area until 2030.
Following the April meeting, we agreed that the Government would prepare a set of measures to achieve Russia’s long-term goals in space exploration. A number of decisions have already been made. For example, the GLONASS navigation system development programme until 2030 has been approved.
I would like to point out that the entire package of measures with appropriate funding was to be approved by August 30. However, this has not been done yet, which jeopardises our plans for the development of the entire industry. I am asking you to explain the reasons for this delay and tell us when this work will be completed.
I would also like to highlight the following topics today and hear the chief designers’ positions on them.
The first is orbital cosmonautics. Our country plays an active role in the activities of the International Space Station (ISS). Our scientists are conducting large-scale research in the Russian segment.
Under the current agreements, the ISS will complete its flight in 2024. Although this term can be extended, we must look beyond the horizon of this decade, consider new challenges in the exploration of deep space and also our national plans for developing infrastructure and exploring our own vast territories, including the Arctic zone.
Our specialists are already working on the idea of creating a Russian service orbital station. I would like to ask you to update us on this project.
Second, Russia leads in space launches. Last year, 17 carrier rockets were successfully launched and 15 carrier rockets have followed suit recently, this year, but the programme has not yet been completed. It is ongoing.
At the same time, as you know, international competition in this sector is growing. We have repeatedly discussed this issue. To maintain the lead in this area we must focus on high reliability in our domestic hardware – in both launching manned flights and delivering payloads into orbit. Finally, we must master the next generation of carrier rockets that meet all the requirements of our customers both domestically and in the international market.
I would like you to report on the status of these projects. I would also like to hear what Roscosmos is doing to make Russian rockets more competitive.
And I would also like to hear a separate update on the Angara complex. The launch pad is now under construction at the Vostochny Space Launch Center. As you know, I visited there recently, in September.
I will note that the first stage of the space port is already making serial launches. It has made four of them since the start of this year.
It is necessary to strengthen our ground-based infrastructure to develop orbital cosmonautics and increase the number of carrier rocket launches. In this context, I hope to hear about the plans for the Vostochny Space Launch Center including the development of a new manned system for transport spacecraft.
And one more point. In the past few years, we have made considerable progress in developing unique technology for the nuclear space power industry. By expert estimates, Russia is six to seven years ahead of its rivals, ahead of the rest of the world. This is a very good foundation, and we must use this advantage, support breakthrough scientific research in cosmonautics and expedite the practical introduction of advanced technological solutions. We will discuss specific steps for this today.
Let us get to work.
<…>
Topics
Space
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 29, 2021, 18:10
Text version