Events
Ceremony to launch Talas Gold Mining Complex
Vladimir Putin and President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov took part, via videoconference, in a ceremony to launch the Talas Gold Mining Complex at the Jerooy deposit.
March 17, 2021
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
7 of 9
During the videoconference ceremony to launch Talas Gold Mining Complex at the Jerooy deposit.
The Jerooy deposit located in Talas Region in northwestern Kyrgyzstan has estimated reserves of nearly 90 tonnes of gold and about 25 tonnes of silver. The project, which is being implemented by Russia’s Alliance Group with support from VTB Bank, is among the largest in the history of Russian-Kyrgyzstani economic cooperation in terms of investment volume. The potential level of production at the enterprise is five tonnes of gold a year.
The ceremony to launch the Talas Gold Mining Complex was also attended by President of Alliance Group and President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Russian Platinum Musa Bazhayev, and President and Chairman of VTB Bank Management Board Andrei Kostin
.
* * *
Speeches made at the ceremony to launch the Talas Gold Mining Complex
President of the Alliance Group, President and Chairman of the Russian Platinum Board of Directors Musa Bazhayev: Mr President Putin, Mr President Japarov, colleagues,
Today, we are not just launching a gold ore plant but are opening a new page in the history of cooperation between strategic partners – the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kyrgyzstan. Jerooy is also a pilot project in the Eurasian cooperation format involving Russian, Kyrgyz and Kazakh companies. VTB Bank has become a strategic partner in funding the project. Availing myself of this opportunity, I would like to thank Mr Kostin and the entire VTB team. Thank you very much for your support. You allocated $190 million for project financing, and due to this we are now launching the project.
This gold mining plant is an advanced, environmentally clean and safe facility based on cutting-edge technology. The production byproducts will be harmless and we guarantee zero dumping into the environment. The gold mill will process 1.5 million tonnes of ore and produce five tonnes of gold a year. This gold ore plant will create over 1,000 jobs. Another 2,000 people or more will receive jobs at related plants in Talas Region. Importantly, Kyrgyz citizens will make up over 90 percent of all plant employees.
Investment in Jerooy has already topped $400 million. In all, it will total over $600 million during the project’s entire implementation. The Kyrguz Republic will receive over a billion dollars in tax revenue and withholding into social funds from Jerooy. We have established the Bakubat Talas welfare fund in which we invest $2 million every year. In all, we will put over $50 million into this. These funds are used for social support, payment benefits for low-income people, new schools, and assistance for small and medium businesses in Talas Region.
This project is being carried out primarily thanks to support from the top government leaders of Russia and the Kyrgyz Republic. Today, speaking on behalf of the thousands of people who built the plant and those who will work at it, I would like to convey our deep gratitude to the presidents of our countries for making this project possible.
President and Chairman of the Management Board of VTB Bank Andrei Kostin
: President Putin, President Japarov, colleagues,
In its 30 years in business, VTB Group has participated as a dependable financial partner in numerous major industrial and infrastructure projects. We support Russian companies’ operations in international markets, and we are active in the Eurasian space, including Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, and Kazakhstan.
The Talas Gold Mining Complex is our debut project in Kyrgyzstan and the republic’s largest project with Russia’s participation, with funding totaling the equivalent of $190 million. The complex will take the mining industry, which is important for Kyrgyzstan, to a new level. The country's economy thus has an unparalleled production site boasting full cycle from ore mining to gold extraction.
Support from the two countries’ presidents makes this project special for us as investors. After all, entering a new market is always about being exposed to major legislative, regulatory and commercial risks. Sometimes years and even decades separate a memorandum of intent and actual implementation of a project. We can safely say that the Jerooy project was lucky in this regard. A dynamic start was initiated just two years ago during the Russian President’s state visit to Kyrgyzstan. I am convinced that the involvement of our respective presidents and Russian-Kyrgyzstani relations based on mutual trust and strategic partnership have significantly mitigated the above investment risks, which have allowed us to implement our plans so soon.
Today's event also reminds us of fundamental economic values. For thousands of years, gold has been the most important asset. Suffice it to say that since the time VTB Bank joined the Jerooy project, world prices of this metal have grown by 30 percent. Therefore, I believe that even with consideration for the growing role of the new industrial economy, the investment demand for gold will remain high for many years to come. So, we should not be worried about the plant’s prosperous future.
Congratulations to all of us on the launching of the Talas Gold Mining Complex, and good luck.
Thank you.
President of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov
: Mr President, participants of today's significant meeting,
I welcome you all to this long-awaited and important event for our country, the ceremony to launch the Talas Gold Mining Complex at the Jerooy deposit.
Allow me to express my gratitude to you, Mr President Putin, for personally attending today's event. I would like to note that the joint opening ceremony of this gold mine is evidence of a close partnership and robustly expanding relations between the Kyrgyz Republic and the Russian Federation.
Discovered half a century ago, the Jerooy field is one of the largest gold deposits in Kyrgyzstan. We all know how much time and effort was spent in negotiations to make this investment decision and the implementation plan. We would like to thank our investor, Alliance Group, for investing in the economy of Kyrgyzstan.
The project operator, Alliance Altyn, has come a long way since it acquired its development permit. And now Russia and Kyrgyzstan are launching an investment project together, which will make a significant contribution to the sustainable development of Talas Region and Kyrgyzstan as a whole.
As of today, the investor has contributed almost 1.5 billion som in taxes and levies to the state budget and extra-budgetary funds; after the gold mining and processing facility begins operations, revenue to the state coffers will increase.
It is gratifying to note that the total number of employees involved in the project will be about 1,000 people, of which more than 95 percent are citizens of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Taking this opportunity, I would like to congratulate everyone on the start of an important period in the implementation of the large-scale Kyrgyz-Russian project to develop the Jerooy field.
Friends,
Kyrgyzstan and Russia are bound by special relations based on alliance and friendship. I made my first foreign visit as President of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan to the Russian Federation in late February.
Mr President, I am pleased to say that the meeting with you was very productive. We agreed to strengthen and build up multifaceted long-term cooperation between our countries and bring it to a new level.
Today, we are taking part in the launch of a project that is strategically important for Kyrgyzstan, which, without doubt, will serve as a good example of investment cooperation between our countries.
It is essential for investors to be able to work without any impediments, so among the first executive orders I signed were those protecting property and supporting entrepreneurs and investors, as well as reforming the mining industry of the Kyrgyz Republic. Thus, we set the course for a consistent and firm policy in these areas.
However, I have two important points to make. First, the comprehensive dialogue between enterprises and the local population must be expanded. Second, all applicable environmental requirements must be complied with when developing the field.
Rest assured that the Kyrgyz Republic will continue to support projects of this kind, which increase the potential of the mining industry and, of course, help the development of the national economy in general. Russian investment in the Kyrgyz market is always welcome.
Colleagues,
Jerooy is currently the country's largest operating investment project with the involvement of a Russian bank partly owned by the state. I am confident that our joint activities will improve the country's image and lead to new large investments in Kyrgyzstan’s economy, and the successful implementation of the Jerooy project will give a powerful boost to the investment potential of the republic.
Once again, let me thank you, Mr President, for personally supporting this project.
I would also like to express my gratitude to everyone who has made and continues to make their contribution to the Jerooy project, in particular, the President of Alliance Group, Musa Bazhayev, who used his firm belief and determination to implement the initial plans that have contributed to strengthening friendly relations between our two countries.
Let me congratulate everyone this significant event and wish success to the Alliance Altyn team in implementing the Jerooy project.
(Speaking Kyrgyz.) Dear Kyrgyzstanis, residents of Talas,
The blessed land of Talas was once the home of our great ancestor Manas the Magnanimous, who rallied our scattered tribes together. The land of Talas has always been the centre of the struggle for unification, as well as a spiritual and cultural centre. Talas has always maintained interethnic harmony, and people of different nationalities have worked here side by side for the good of our state.
Today, in the presence of our guest, the head of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, we are launching the Talas Gold Mining Complex at the Jerooy deposit, via teleconference.
Dear Kyrgyzstanis,
We believe that the implementation of this project will have a positive effect on the economy of our republic, including Talas Region. After the Talas gold mine at the Jerooy deposit goes into operation, millions of som will be channeled annually into the development of Talas Region, and billions of dollars are to come into the republic’s budget. Thanks to this, the state budget will grow every year.
True, there are some who are not happy with this situation, but nevertheless, so much effort has been invested and so much work has already been done – we will not stop, we just cannot stop now. This land should work for everybody’s good through agreement and the consent of all parties involved.
Dear residents of Talas,
With the ideas of national unity and cohesion in this blessed land in mind, I especially note that Talas, as the home of Manas the Magnanimous, was of great importance in the development of the Kyrgyz people. The origins of Kyrgyz statehood, our national and spiritual vision originated here. We are united in our aspirations, and we have one common goal – to increase the wealth of the nation, to promote development and creation for the sake of the future of our country. To do this, we need harmony, peace, and stability – we must never forget this.
Once again, dear residents of Talas, I express my gratitude to you and wish you prosperity and growth.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
The launch of the Talas Gold Mining Complex at the Jerooy deposit is indeed an important project for Russian-Kyrgyzstani economic cooperation and, in general, for the strengthening of partner and allied relations between our nations. I fully agree on this with Mr Japarov.
We have successfully implemented one of the largest joint projects. The top managers of Alliance Group and VTB Bank have told us of the efforts and resources invested in the development of the Jerooy deposit and the construction of the Talas Gold Mining Complex.
I would like to point out that we are talking about truly record Russian investments in Kyrgyzstan estimated at some $600 million.
The Talas Gold Mining Complex will employ cutting-edge technology and state-of-the-art equipment, including those compliant with all nature conservation regulations and standards. This will allow the production of up to five tonnes of gold per year, efficiently and with no environmental damage.
I would like to note that the Jerooy deposit, which will supply ore to the Talas Gold Mining Complex, was, as the President of Kyrgyzstan has just pointed out, explored by Soviet geologists back in 1968. The scientists estimated that the gold reserves in the deposit amount to around 90 tonnes and silver reserves to around 25 tonnes. This means that the facility will have resources for stable work to continue for years.
The mining complex is creating more than a thousand jobs offering new employment opportunities to the local population. Small and medium-sized enterprises in Talas Region will be able to secure lucrative deals to supply goods and services required by the complex.
Russian investors intend to provide significant financial support for the social development of Talas Region. The company director already said that a designated foundation was established that will receive up to $2 million every year. Almost half of these funds will be spent on socially significant projects in the region while the rest of the money will be used for subsidised lending to businesses.
In other words, the new gold mining facility will bring considerable benefits both to Talas Region and the Kyrgyz economy in general.
As the President mentioned, the state budget will receive significant revenue. The mining complex has already transferred $100 million to the Kyrgyz budget as the Jerooy deposit license fee. It is estimated that subsequently, the tax revenue received by the Kyrgyz budget will indeed grow, to about $70 million per year.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all Russian and Kyrgyzstani co-founders and investors of the Talas Gold Mining Complex and its personnel, including the engineers and workers who built it, for their well-coordinated and effective operation.
Of course, I would like to express gratitude to the leadership of Kyrgyzstan and personally to Mr Japarov for their attention to the interests of Russian economic operators and their efforts to create a favourable investment climate in the Kyrgyz Republic. We hope that the Kyrgyz authorities will continue to support the new enterprise.
I would like to repeat that the implementation of this important joint project will be a symbol of the successful development of the multifaceted and mutually beneficial Russian-Kyrgyzstani partnership and strong friendship between our nations, which is fully in line the with spirit of the agreements reached during a recent visit by the President of Kyrgyzstan to Moscow. We are grateful to you for making your first foreign visit to our capital.
I hope that all the efforts we have been making together to promote our economic cooperation, as well as the funds that have been invested with the aim of allowing Kyrgyzstan to become a full-fledged member of the EAEU economic alliance, and the sum invested was indeed considerable, running into hundreds of millions of dollars, I hope that our joint efforts will continue to facilitate the implementation of major industrial projects that will benefit both sides economically. I would like to wish all the very best to all those who are involved in this process.
Thank you.
<…>
President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov: Mr President,
I would like to once again express our deep gratitude to you for taking part in the ceremony to launch the Jerooy deposit. I would also like to wish all the best to Alliance Altyn and to all those present at this ceremony.
Once again, thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. Hope to see you soon.
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Industry
Persons
Japarov Sadyr
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 17, 2021, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting of Prosecutor General’s Office Board
During an expanded meeting of the Board of Russia’s Prosecutor General’s Office, Vladimir Putin reviewed the organisation’s performance in 2020 and outlined the tasks to strengthen law and order in 2021.
March 17, 2021
15:30
Moscow
1 of 3
At the expanded meeting of the Prosecutor General’s Office Board.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues, Mr Krasnov.
During this traditional annual expanded board meeting, we will discuss the prosecution authorities’ performance in 2020 and, as usual, outline immediate priorities for the future.
First of all, I would like to say that the prosecution authorities, just like all other agencies of the law enforcement system, are faced with the crucial task of protecting law and order, and, moreover, they are authorised, by virtue of their position, to make a considerable, significant contribution to Russia’s development as a law-based and community-focused democratic state.
During the past year, which was far from simple, you managed to improve a number of vital indicators. For example, prosecutors upheld the social rights of over a million citizens. Thanks to the measures taken, nearly 22 billion rubles of wage arrears have been paid out. Overall, a critical rise in non-payments and wage arrears has been avoided despite the complicated situation caused by the pandemic. Government support packages, economic assistance and regular supervision of compliance with labour legislation played their role in this, and, of course, we must continue to closely monitor the situation on the labour market.
During the previous board meeting, I instructed you to redouble efforts to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population. I am asking you to continue monitoring this priority sphere. I would like to point out that in 2020 there was an increase in the number of violations exposed and, most importantly, remedied concerning the rights of disabled persons and pensioners. The statistics indicate that problems remain in this sphere.
Your task is to ensure, together with other government agencies, the unconditional fulfilment of social guarantees, so that our senior citizens and people with disabilities can receive promptly and without any ordeals what is due to them, including social benefits, free medication and access to medical services and convalescent care facilities.
And of course, matters such as support for large families, low-income families, orphans and single mothers should remain under close review. We must immediately respond to unlawful non-payment of benefits, compensations or other types of material support that people are entitled to.
Among our unconditional priorities is the protection of the rights of minors. Violations are still frequent in this sphere, as you well know, so I am asking you to consider requests and petitions coming from large families, families with disabled children, and guardians of orphans as a matter of priority, to involve regional and municipal authorities in addressing these matters and of course, rely on public organisations.
Security systems at educational institutions need to be improved. School meals and summer activities for children and adolescents require most serious attention, too. You know that in previous years, we encountered big problems and tragedies here. Checks and inspections need to be carried out regularly, and any violations exposed should not only be recorded, but completely eliminated. I ask you to keep an eye on this. As summer vacations and school holidays are coming up, we need to concentrate on this specifically.
Evidence of instances of so-called domestic violence must not be ignored. In 2020, more than half of all crimes against minors, unfortunately – but it needs to be admitted – were committed by members of their families. I ask you to make full use of your powers and demand an appropriate response from the child protection authorities.
I would also like to note the supervisory support of strategic national projects. The government allocates significant funds for these purposes, and that money should work for development, for the improvement of people’s quality of life. Any violations and abuses in this sphere must be curbed and severely punished.
Special attention should also be paid to healthcare, which is an extremely important, key area. Here, prosecutors should not only supervise how the regional programmes already launched and the corresponding national projects are being implemented, but also carefully monitor the progress of many other issues. For example, they need to check whether the standards for the provision of medical care are met, whether free medicines, services, and means of rehabilitation are provided to entitled recipients on time, or whether the approved additional compensations and bonuses are actually paid to medical workers.
Furthermore, numerous acute and sensitive issues remain in the sphere of housing and utilities, including unjustified price hikes. It goes without saying that the economy lives according to its own laws, and that it is very dangerous to tamper with these laws, but I am talking about unjustified hikes alone and failure to comply with service quality standards, attempts to unjustifiably redistribute infrastructure repairs funding.
Here I am counting on the principled position of prosecutors, based on strict compliance with the law; this also concerns such aspects as the protection and reinstatement of the rights of those defrauded in participatory housing construction projects.
Legislation has already been amended, and these amendments introduce additional guarantees and reduce the risks for people on the housing market. First, it is necessary to consistently deal with the debts that have accumulated over the years. Therefore, I am asking the heads of prosecutors’ offices in regions with such unfinished and problem projects to monitor this situation, and I am asking you to deal with this personally. We need to finally resolve this issue, at long last. Secondly, it is necessary to monitor law enforcement practice and to prevent new problems, so that unfair developers and outright crooks are unable to find any legal loopholes allowing them to deceive people.
And, of course, prosecutors should continue to deal with nature management and environmental protection matters. This is one of the most topical issues today. This implies the adequate removal of household waste and its disposal, the preservation of forests and unique ecosystems, and valuable water and biological resources.
Colleagues,
The fight against crime remains a key task of prosecutors’ offices. You are responsible for coordinating all the law enforcement activities in the Russian Federation, and you should do everything necessary to reduce the level of the crime threat, to solve more crimes and demand better work on the part of investigative divisions and those conducting preliminary investigation.
It is necessary to assess the legality of refusals to register crime reports, to expose the falsification of registration documents within the framework of prerogatives for keeping legal statistics, to voice a principled stand on red tape during the investigation of criminal cases and during pre-investigation checks.
Support for state prosecution is an important aspect of your work. State prosecutors should display high levels of competence, and they should defend the interests of the state, society and citizens effectively. It is also necessary to improve the quality of work on defending the rights of entrepreneurs and in general to ensure the reliability of the entire national business framework. I am asking you to respond to all evidence of pressure and encroachment upon the rights of legal entities, especially small and medium-sized businesses, as well as with regard to self-employed citizens and individual entrepreneurs. As you have probably noted, we are now trying to support this sector and its employees. It is necessary to find out whether various inspections and checks regarding enterprises are justified or not. I will not dwell on this matter separately because prosecutors’ offices are working rather effectively here.
Society expects you to be more active in countering extremism. Prosecutors at all levels must promptly respond to manifestations of nationalism and any attempts to destabilise the situation in the country.
I have already mentioned at the board meetings of the FSB and the Ministry of the Interior that the next parliamentary elections are due this year, as you well know. It is also your direct responsibility to ensure compliance with the rule of law during the election campaign and the voting.
The fight against corruption should be given serious attention, primarily in such areas as the placement and implementation of civilian and defence state orders, as well as the provision of public services, and the use of municipal and state property. It is of the essence to detect any discrepancy between municipal and civil servants’ spending and their incomes. Also on the agenda is improving the mechanisms for moving assets obtained by criminal means back from abroad. I would like to ask you to effectively use the capabilities of the interdepartmental working group recently established at the Prosecutor General’s Office to coordinate this work.
In conclusion, I would like to bring up one more important topic. Last year, the Prosecutor General gave instructions to improve the consideration of appeals, submitted in writing or in person, and special attention here should be paid to the violation of the rights of socially unprotected categories. At the same time, it is essential to keep the process of dealing with people’s most important problems under review, and we agreed that the Prosecutor General would deal with this personally. This heightens the prosecutors’ responsibility for the quality of verifying people’s petitions, and simplifies the procedures for appealing against the prosecutors’ decisions at all levels. And this, of course, is important and significant. People need to feel they are in contact with the prosecution system and to understand that it is a level of state power where people can get protection of their interests.
Once again, your work and your attitude to the matter influences people’s lives and their well-being, the rule of law in Russia and its progressive development.
I would like to thank the management and employees of the prosecutor's offices for being principled and responsible about their duties, and for conscientiously serving the law. I am confident, comrades, that you will continue to fulfill your duties with dignity.
I wish you every success and thank you all very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Mr Krasnov, colleagues,
I looked carefully again at the resolutions of the Board of the Prosecutor General’s Office. I am referring to the draft. Mr Krasnov, I would like to draw your and your colleagues’ attention to some points.
I think the positive results of your work are reflected in the first part. Following the consistent efforts of the Prosecutor General’s Office, wage arrears have been settled. I spoke about this in my opening remarks, and Mr Krasnov said this as well. These payments amounted to 23.8 billion rubles but what matters most is that in 2020 the recorded arrears dropped from 2.1 billion to 1.6 billion rubles even though this was a very difficult year. Many companies suspended operations but debt was reduced nonetheless. This is generally a good figure, and I would like to thank you for this.
Cartel collusion was identified in supplies of medications and so on. This is also a very important area. We need to closely follow this because eventually all cartel collusion leads to higher prices in the market, at the people’s expense.
You worked in these areas and did absolutely the right things. I will simply read it: prosecutors have managed to achieve a reduction in overdue debt to businesses with public contracts. It is important to pay attention to this because if payments for the work done are delayed or unjustified or the work was not approved on time, problems eventually face the employees. This is the correct approach and it is necessary to monitor it going forward, too.
We have already spoken about decrepit housing, environmental protection and military prosecutors. They have managed to protect the rights of over 84,000 military personnel to receive money and other allowances; the salary arrears of civilian personnel were settled, etc. These are very important areas, and I would like you to not let up on this. This is absolutely correct.
Something drew my attention, and I want the Prosecutor General and his deputies, as well as everyone who is involved in this, to revisit what you have noted here. The decline in crime solving rates in 2020 is indicative of setbacks in the work of law enforcement agencies. The decline is small, but you need to carefully analyse the reasons behind it. There may be objective circumstances. We will not go into detail now, since you are professionals and you know what I am talking about. However, there may also be subjective reasons. There is a need for a thorough and in-depth analysis.
I also noted the fact that criminal prosecution was terminated with regard to 180,400 defendants. It is imperative to make sure that the sentences passed during criminal court proceedings are objective and fair and fully comply with the law.
Overcrowded detention centres represent a violation of security regulations. This, too, needs to be analysed region by region. They are listed here, but you need to take a closer look. Mr Krasnov, please submit a report covering these matters. Perhaps, the regions need help, or the system itself needs help, including the Interior Ministry and the prisoner detention system. Problems abound, but there are things that need our immediate attention, and they need to be taken care of accordingly.
The first paragraph contains an aptly worded statement, which is “to more energetically implement the human rights potential of the prosecutor's office.” This must be followed in the broadest sense of the term. There is also the need to strive towards the timely updating of regional and municipal regulations in accordance with amendments to the Russian Federation Constitution and ensuing amendments to federal legislation.
This is all very important, and many of you probably remember how prosecution authorities effectively operated in the early 2000s to bring the statutes and constitutions of the regions into harmony with the Constitution of the Russian Federation. In many regions, the laws said anything but mentioning that it was a constituent region of the Russian Federation. The involvement of the Prosecutor’s Office largely helped change the situation then, and bring the regulatory framework in the regions in line with the Constitution of Russia.
Keeping in mind the recent amendments made to the Constitution, there is work that certainly needs to be done to incorporate those changes and bring each regional regulatory framework and the federal regulatory framework in line with the new amendments, you are absolutely right.
There is one more point to make, a new, but essential one: additional measures need to be taken to curb the illegal cross-border movement of funds in digital financial assets. Criminals are increasingly using these digital financial assets, and this certainly needs to be looked into, with your colleagues from other departments, including the Financial Monitoring Service.
But our prosecution authorities’ job is to monitor the observance of the rule of law in all spheres of the state, and almost all of that is mentioned here, so I do not need to repeat it. There is only one thing missing. This says nothing about addressing the prosecutors’ own social problems. Mr Krasnov, I hope that the administrators at the Prosecutor General's Office are working on this, it cannot be otherwise. Still, it would also be appropriate to reflect this in the Prosecutor General's Office Board resolution, as one of the objectives – to improve the prosecutors’ quality of life, social situation, and working conditions.
I would like to thank you all for your work in 2020 and wish you all the best in 2021.
Thank you.
Topics
Fight against crime
Persons
Krasnov Igor
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 17, 2021, 15:30
Text version