Events
Meeting on implementing certain provisions of the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, on implementing certain provisions of the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly delivered on April 21.
May 19, 2021
14:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
4 of 4
At the meeting on implementing certain provisions of the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly (via videoconference),
The main report on the implementation of objectives set out in the Presidential Address was delivered by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
. First Deputy Speaker of the Federation Council and Secretary of the United Russia Party General Council Andrei Turchak
spoke about the legal framework for this.
Deputy prime ministers Dmitry Chernyshenko
and Marat Khusnullin
briefed the meeting participants on the implementation of the Address in this spheres of their responsibility.
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
, deputy prime ministers Viktoria Abramchenko
, Yury Borisov
, Tatyana Golikova
, Alexander Novak
, Alexei Overchuk
, Marat Khusnullin and Dmitry Chernyshenko, Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Dmitry Grigorenko
, Deputy Prime Minister – Plenipotentiary Presidential Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
, First Deputy Speaker of the Federation Council and Secretary of the United Russia Party General Council Andrei Turchak, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
, and Head of the Russian Popular Front Executive Committee Mikhail Kuznetsov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
As you are aware, a list of instructions following my Address to the Federal Assembly was approved on May 2. All the initiatives that were put forth in the Address have been formulated as concrete managerial objectives and decisions, along with the deadlines and those responsible for their implementation.
See also
Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly
April 21, 2021
Instructions on implementing President’s Address to Federal Assembly
May 2, 2021
I would like to remind you that these vital decisions have to do with the creation of an integral system of support for Russian families with children, the further development of our education and healthcare systems, environmental protection, additional incentives for domestic businesses, including the high-tech sectors, and the creation of new opportunities for the constituent entities of the Russian Federation to for developing infrastructure, the economy, labour market and social sphere.
Of course, you know that the main points of the Address were not drafted and formulated from scratch. This called for large-scale preliminary work involving you, the Government, colleagues from the Presidential Executive Office and parliamentary parties.
Additional
Instructions following a meeting on implementing certain provisions of the Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly
June 5, 2021
The United Russia party contributed a substantial share of proposals. Today, I would like to ask Mr Turchak to discuss the implementation of the new legislative initiatives.
On the whole, I would like to draw the attention of Government members, colleagues in the regions, deputies and senators to the fact that I am expecting a smooth and effective fulfilment of the instructions contained in the Address. Colleagues, all tasks that we have jointly set should be accomplished in the same way and with the same results as expected by Russian citizens.
At today’s meeting, I suggest that we focus on two most important issues that have to be resolved right away.
First, the summer vacation season is beginning. Many families are choosing or have already chosen their holiday destinations and summer camps where their children will stay. Of course, vacation costs are a key issue here. I repeat, people should understand what support the state will provide in this regard.
The Address called for the extension of the tourism expenses cashback programme until late 2021. The programme should also cover young people, including the finalists and winners of Olympiads, volunteer and creative competitions, during the summer holidays. Children staying at summer camps will be entitled to a 50 percent reimbursement of the cost. I would like to discuss this issue with you in greater detail because I can see some problems here already.
I would like to note that all decisions on this issue should have already been made. Today, I would like to ask you to report how this instruction has been fulfilled, how the new national tourism project is proceeding, and how you are cooperating with the business community in order to strengthen the country’s tourism industry.
Second, I would like to note today that the Address prioritises infrastructure development. This implies the construction of motorways and other transport facilities, the renewal of housing and utilities systems, and other aspects that largely determine the quality of people’s lives in cities and villages, and which are a highly important factor of growth, expanded business activity, and which also help create new enterprises and jobs.
It is vital for the investment in infrastructure to provide a powerful impetus for the comprehensive development of Russia’s regions and territories and to be complemented with an increase of investment by private businesses. Therefore, just as I pointed out in the Address, we must offer new tools for financing such long-term investment.
I am referring first of all to the budgetary loans issued at a law interest rate for at least 15 years with a grace period. These funds are to be attracted by the regional authorities for investment in the construction and renovation of engineering, utilities, social and tourist infrastructure, just as we agreed to do. We must ensure the provision of infrastructure loans to all Federation entities capable of servicing them.
I would like to remind you that we decided, seeking to expand the regions’ access to development tools, to reduce their debt burden, replace expensive commercial loans with budgetary loans, and restructure the budgetary loans that were issued last year. I would like you to report today on the actual parameters of the provision of infrastructure loans and the lending procedure, as well as to provide details of the planned replacement of commercial debts with budgetary loans.
Colleagues, I would like to point out that we have agreed to increase the amount of projects financed with infrastructure loans to at least 500 billion rubles by 2024.
The Government is already analysing such projects that involve state and private businesses. I mentioned them in my Address, as you may recall. They are the Northern Latitudinal Railway and the development of municipal transport in million-plus cities: Nizhny Novgorod, Chelyabinsk and Krasnoyarsk.
We must develop clear and smooth interaction with all the members of this process. I would like to draw the attention of our largest companies, primarily Russian Railways and Gazprom, to the following: colleagues, you must join these activities energetically, coordinating and synchronising your investment plans and programmes with the regions’ new possibilities in the field of infrastructure development.
Of course, I would also like to point out once again that the Government must provide the necessary assistance to the regions for the implementation of these and other infrastructure projects, including a comprehensive spatial development and new housing construction projects.
As I noted in the Address, we must launch a mechanism for subsidising the bonds that will be placed by the DOM.RF development institute, which will give developers an opportunity to take out special-purpose loans at the lowest possible interest rate and to increase the scale of residential housing construction, thus making housing more affordable for Russian families.
I would like you to expand on this subject today and to report on the implementation of this instruction.
Let us begin with an overview of the implementation of the objectives set out in the Address. I would like Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin to do this.
<…>
Topics
Children
Housing and utilities
Regions
Social services
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 19, 2021, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Launch of construction of new power units at Tianwan and Xudapu nuclear power plants
President of Russia Vladimir Putin and President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping took part, via videoconference, in a ceremony to launch the construction of the seventh and eighth power units at the Tianwan Nuclear Power Plant and the third and fourth power units at the Xudapu Nuclear Power Plant in China.
May 19, 2021
12:35
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 4
During a ceremony to launch the construction of new power units at Tianwan and Xudapu nuclear power plants (via videoconference).
Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping
launched the concreting of the foundation of the seventh power unit at the Tianwan NPP and of the third power unit at the Xudapu NPP.
On Russia’s side, the event was also attended by Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Russian part of the Russian-Chinese Intergovernmental Commission on Energy Cooperation Alexander Novak
and Director General of State Atomic Energy Corporation Rosatom Alexei Likhachev
.
* * *
President of China Xi Jinping (retranslated): President Putin, Construction workers of the China-Russia nuclear energy projects,
I am really delighted to be attending together with President Putin the ceremony to mark the start of the construction of the China-Russia joint nuclear energy projects. On behalf of the Chinese Government and the people, I would like to sincerely congratulate you on this occasion and to express profound respect for the constructors of both countries.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the signing of the China-Russia Treaty on Good-Neighbourliness, Friendship and Cooperation. President Putin and I agreed to strive for expanding and deepening bilateral relations.
Against the backdrop of the pandemic and unparalleled changes over a period of the past century, our countries have been providing each other with solid support and have been engaged in close and effective cooperation. This clearly illustrates the profound meaning of China-Russia relations of comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation in the new era.
Energy has always been the biggest and most successful branch in our practical cooperation while nuclear energy cooperation has been its strategic priority. We are jointly upgrading our cooperation in this area and have already put into operation a host of major projects.
Today, President Putin and I are attending the ceremony marking the launch of the construction of the seventh and eighth power units at theTianwan NPP and the third and fourth power units at the Xudapu NPP. This is yet another major achievement of our bilateral cooperation.
In this context, I would just like to express a few things that are desired regarding our future cooperation.
First of all, it is necessary to make safety top priority and to create an example of global nuclear energy cooperation. Safety is a vital guarantee for the nuclear industry. The sides must always focus on safety issues and set the most rigid requirements when it comes to the quality and standards of the construction and maintenance of the four power units, thereby creating a global example of nuclear safety.
It is important to have a full understanding of the potential offered by our complementarity in market resources, technologies, production capacities and specialists, to promote our cooperation in the nuclear sphere, and to make a sizable contribution to the global development of nuclear energy.
Second, it is necessary to strive for innovation-based development and to strengthen scientific and technical cooperation in the nuclear sphere. Using the opportunities offered by China-Russia years of scientific, technical and innovative cooperation, it is important to focus on environmental protection in the nuclear sphere, nuclear medicine, nuclear fuel and advanced technologies, to strengthen cooperation in fundamental research, in the development of key technologies and in the implementation of innovative products in the manufacturing processes, to promote the use of the latest digital technologies in the nuclear industry, and to make a sizable intellectual contribution to the innovation-driven development of the global nuclear sphere.
Third, it is necessary to steadily expand strategic interaction that contributes to the coordinated development of the global energy management system. In recent years, the efforts to ensure energy security and accessibility and to promote its sustainable development have been increasingly intertwined. There are unprecedented opportunities and challenges for all countries. In this regard, the parties must contribute to the formation of a more just, more balanced and accessible, as well as more open global energy management system, and offer a greater number of solutions to improve global energy management.
Today, combating climate change is the common challenge for all countries. As responsible powers, China and Russia must broaden the understanding of these challenges, promote the implementation of even more ambitious projects for low-carbon cooperation similar to these four blocks, and play a constructive role in the implementation of the goals of global sustainable development.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Xi Jinping, my dear friend,
First of all, I am delighted to see you and to be able to attend this landmark event.
Colleagues,
I would like to join the President of China in congratulating you all on the beginning of construction of four power units at the Tianwan NPP and the Xudapu NPP. During this ceremony, President Xi and I will launch the concreting of the foundation of these power units.
Russian and Chinese specialists are working on this flagship joint project which is truly a milestone. They are building powerful, modern Russian-designed nuclear reactors that meet all safety and environmental standards. It is planned that they will start operating as soon as in 2026–2028, which, as President Xi just said, will be a solid contribution to China’s energy security. Chinese consumers will have access to larger volumes of inexpensive and clean electric power.
The Tianwan NPP, which will be expanded with new power units, was itself built with Russia’s participation and has been successfully operating since 2007. I am confident that the Russian reactors at the Xudapu NPP will operate as seamlessly and effectively.
Rosatom is the company in charge of building nuclear power facilities in China in cooperation with its Chinese partners. Rosatom relies on the advanced practices and expertise of Russian scientists as well as Russia’s unique high technology capabilities in industrial production.
I should note that strict sanitary measures are observed at all construction sites where Russian and Chinese nuclear power specialists are working, commensurate with the current epidemiological situation. All necessary measures are being taken to protect the health of both permanent workers and contractors.
President Xi and I determined the main areas of our genuinely close partnership, the cooperation between Russia and China on nuclear technology, during my state visit to China in 2018. Cooperation in the area of peaceful nuclear development is an essential component of the entire scope of Russia−China strategic partnership, which is extensive, truly friendly and mutually beneficial.
Very soon, we will be celebrating 20 years of our core bilateral document, the Treaty of Good-Neighbourliness, Friendship and Cooperation. Since the signing of this treaty, Russia and China have achieved great success in strengthening our multidimensional cooperation and mutual trust across all areas without exception: politics, international affairs, trade and the economy, cultural and humanitarian exchanges. It can be said that Russia-China relations have reached their highest level in history.
Returning to the topic of nuclear energy cooperation, I would like to note, with great satisfaction, that all the agreements reached at the highest level are being consistently and unfailingly fulfilled. In addition to the construction of new power units at the Tianwan and Xudapu nuclear power plants, there are many other large Russian-Chinese initiatives that have been and are being implemented.
These initiatives include an experimental fast neutron reactor built in China with Russia’s participation. It is possible that China will get involved in an international consortium that is building a multi-purpose fast neutron research reactor in Dimitrovgrad, Russia. Other plans include joint research concerning the development of a closed nuclear fuel cycle.
Russia also supplied China with radionuclide heating blocks for the spacecraft that was the first in history to land on the far side of the Moon in 2019. We were extremely happy about your success, dear Chinese friends.
I am convinced that Russia and China will have many more ambitious and successful projects together. We are ready to develop our cooperation in the construction of nuclear power plants, and innovative partnership in the development and implementation of low-carbon and other technologies. This work will help our countries make a noticeable contribution to supplying global markets with clean energy, to implementing the international climate agenda and to ensuring consistent sustainable development in the world in general.
Friends,
In conclusion, I would like to extend my gratitude to President Xi for his personal dedication to our bilateral cooperation and wish great success to all our Russian and Chinese colleagues and friends.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Persons
Likhachev Alexei
Novak Alexander
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 19, 2021, 12:35
Text version