Events
Meeting with newly elected governors
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, with the elected heads of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation.
September 25, 2021
18:55
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 2
Participants in the meeting with newly elected governors.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Greetings, colleagues.
First of all, I want to congratulate you on your election as heads of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation.
You all have experience of such work and you know how complicated and intense it is. You realise that a colossal responsibility to the people is bestowed upon you. You must assert their trust daily, work for them and for their sake, as we say, roll up your sleeves, with your heart and with your soul, proving that you are in the right place and deserve such a high position, and proving the viability of election programmes and promises with concrete deeds. You should target your management teams towards unquestionable resolution of urgent social and economic problems in the regions, and of course, sustaining their effective and dynamic progress.
I ask you to personally monitor the realisation of the national projects and see to how the adopted measures are being implemented on the ground on supporting families with children and other categories of citizens, small and medium-sized businesses, on conducting comprehensive medical check-ups and medical rehabilitation of people who had COVID-19 – we are launching a big programme now. A special emphasis should be laid on the issues of employment, including and maybe primarily on the employment of young specialists and those in the pre-retirement group. You know that occasionally some issues arise here.
The overall success of the programmes which are of paramount important to the people largely depends on the quality of your performance and its close coordination with the Government and your colleagues in other regions. I mean the modernisation of primary medical care, resettling people from decrepit housing and improving urban and rural territories, as well as construction and renovation of roads, transport and social infrastructure facilities, including major renovations of over 7,000 school buildings in the forthcoming five years.
What is required from the regions in this respect? Grounded, well-calculated and duly submitted applications, competent and judicious handling of the funds received and to be received from the federal centre, and strict and regular compliance with all co-financing obligations. I know there are certain issues here, and we will speak to the Government on this matter and will discuss it with you.
We also need to actively apply the new instruments set up specially for the regions, for supporting their current and future investment plans. These include first of all infrastructure budget loans, which were mentioned in this year’s Address [to the Federal Assembly].
Indeed, the federal priorities and our national projects and key programmes should be implemented with a view to the local specifics, objective requirements and competitive advantages of the territories. However, I will stress that all our basic strategic plans are of equal value and significance for all the constituent entities of the Russian Federation.
Such plans establish conditions for the comprehensive sustainable development of the entire country. But they are coming to life – this has been said many times before – on the ground, in Russia’s regions. You, as their heads, are directly responsible for the results, mainly to the people, who will assess your efforts. It is crucial here not only to inform about what has been done but also to involve as many residents as possible in the implementation of the projects vital for the region and municipalities, and to strengthen interaction with civic society institutions.
Both you and your subordinates, your teams and everyone in charge of particular areas of work must stay in close contact with the people and seek their advice so as to find out their opinions, incorporate their suggestions and get feedback without any middlemen.
It is certainly not a pre-election situation, so you will not be able to walk the streets every day and ask questions; this is obvious. Yet you should find ways of interacting directly with the people. Politicians and managers gain success when they act openly, sincerely and competently.
I am sure that you have such qualities and I wish you great meaningful results in the upcoming work, and, most importantly, to always remember that civil service – let us state this again – is service, which derives from the word “to serve.” Thus, service is mainly about serving. Serving the people who entrusted you with such a high position and expect effective work from you. 
Colleagues, does anyone wish to speak? Please, go ahead. 
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Your work is not easy as you work directly with the people. You are closer to them than federal employees, especially those in Moscow. You have a better grasp of people’s sentiments, needs, and their expectations.
I sincerely rely on your efficiency, your managerial talent and your commitment to gaining the maximum result in your high position as head of a Russian Federation constituent entity. People are expecting results from you. We have a large agenda and possess everything we need to produce results, to achieve the tasks we are setting before us.
As you know, the Government has formulated additional support measures in the framework of national projects, for key development areas, and allocated significant extra funding with most of it going exactly to the regions of the Russian Federation. And you will be those individuals on the ground who need to ultimately show your voters the results of your work as you manage these resources or monitor how work is being carried out in those areas. Our overall result in the country’s development will also depend on local results.
I want to wish you success and all the best. We will be always in contact with you.
All the best.
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 25, 2021, 18:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with political parties’ leaders
The President held a meeting, via videoconference, with leaders of the political parties that were elected to the 8th convocation State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation.
September 25, 2021
18:20
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with political parties’ leaders (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: To begin with, I would like welcome all of you to the meeting with leaders of the political parties that were elected to the State Duma of the eighth convocation.
Its composition was determined by Russian citizens who realised their constitutional and sovereign right in an open election, in strict compliance with the law. There was a high turnout: over half of the country’s voters took part in the elections.
In this context I would like to once again thank Russia’s citizens for coming to the polling stations or voting from home, or – wherever it was available – voting online, but in any case, they fulfilled their civic duty and made their responsible choice, which is critical.
You are aware, colleagues, that yesterday, on September 24, the Central Electoral Commission released the final results. Four parties reaffirmed their high status of parliamentary parties: the United Russia, the Communist Party of the Russian Federation, A Fair Russia – For the Truth, and the Liberal Democratic Party. In addition, a new party – the New People, will have a separate faction, albeit a small one. For the first time since 1999, there will be more than four factions in the Duma, which speaks of the democratic nature of the electoral rules and procedures, of the progress of democracy in our country, and shows that various political forces have a real chance to assert themselves.
I want to congratulate all those present as well as your supporters on your success. It was achieved in a tough struggle with strong rivals. And I congratulate the United Russia party on its convincing victory, as the party has proved it remains the leader.
I would stress that the elections were held against the backdrop of the pandemic, decreasing real incomes and instability in the global markets. Our major economic indicators have rebounded to the pre-crisis level only recently but, regrettably, few of our citizens can sense this positive trend right away; they cannot feel it yet, so to say.
I understand how hard it was on the people during this past period, which was complicated for all. Unfortunately, it was practically impossible to avoid the negative impact of the pandemic. Nevertheless, Russia has been coping with the emerging problems better than many other countries overall, and you certainly know that.
We tried to cushion the shock as much as possible and rendered large-scale material assistance to the people, to those who lost their jobs, first of all families with children, including direct payments, as they say here, cash in hand. We supported strategic industries and the personnel of enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses and ensured, as I have already said, a fast economic recovery.
This was made possible largely thanks to closely coordinated efforts of the government and the parliament. It is essential that in the most critical moments all parliamentary factions showed solidarity, which resulted in a balanced and responsible socioeconomic policy. The safety cushion we established in the past and our reserves, by the way, made it possible for us to support both the economy and the people in a very complicated situation.
Colleagues,
Elections are obviously a crucial and symbolic stage in the life of each party and the entire nation, but it is just one more stage. Intensive daily work lies ahead for the benefit of Russia and its citizens.
I would like to note that the role of the State Duma has been made considerably more important by the updated Constitution. In this context, the responsibility of the members of parliament has also greatly increased, primarily for the realisation of the obligations you undertook during the election campaign and numerous meetings with voters. It does not matter, by the way, which party you belong to: whatever you promised must definitely be delivered.
You are well aware of the active dialogue maintained by the parties and each candidate with the people during election campaigns and how many meetings they have. Such a totally intensive, public and open style of work must become standard throughout your tenure in parliament.
Meanwhile, we all have a number of common challenges and tasks. We must bring poverty to a minimum and take many people out of it. We must improve the standards of living, developing, educating and raising children in low-income families, increase the level and availability of high-quality modern education and healthcare for all, continue to pursue changes in the economic structure in favour of advanced high-tech industries – this one is an extremely difficult challenge but it is an absolute priority. And we must certainly boost the economic growth rate.
These are the tasks that are not just common for us – they unite us. I believe that both experienced traditional parliamentary parties and the new political forces that will be represented in the State Duma realise their responsibility to Russia and will do their best to justify the trust – the high trust that voters have in them.
I want to wish all of you success. I certainly expect that at our today’s meeting you will share your opinions of the election campaign and will inform us about your factions’ immediate plans and the legislative initiatives each of the attendees obviously has, but primarily about the goals and tasks designed to implement the election programmes and promises that were given to the voters.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 25, 2021, 18:20
Text version