Events
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and heads of defence industry enterprises
In Sochi, Vladimir Putin chaired the second meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and heads of defence industry enterprises.
November 2, 2021
14:30
Sochi
1 of 2
Meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and heads of defence industry enterprises.
The discussion focused on equipping the Armed Forces with unmanned aircraft.
The meeting was attended by Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces and First Deputy Defence Minister Valery Gerasimov
, Deputy Defence Minister Alexei Krivoruchko, Commander-in-Chief of the Aerospace Forces Sergei Surovikin, Commander-in-Chief of the Navy Nikolai Yevmenov, Commander of the Strategic Missile Forces Sergei Karakayev, Chief of the Main Operations Directorate of the General Staff and Deputy Chief of the General Staff Sergei Rudskoy, Chief of the Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff and Deputy Chief of the General Staff Igor Kostyukov, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Aerospace Forces for Armaments Yury Grekhov, First Deputy Chief of the Main Operations Directorate of the General Staff Viktor Poznikhir, and Head of the Interbranch Research Directorate of the Main Operational Directorate of the General Staff Yevgeny Shmyrin.
Also invited to the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov
, First Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Military-Industrial Commission Andrei Yelchaninov, Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Oleg Ryazantsev, CEO of Rostec State Corporation Sergei Chemezov
, General Director of the Ural Works of Civil Aviation Vadim Badekha, General Director of Kronstadt JSC Sergei Bogatikov, General Director and Chairman of the Management Board of the United Aircraft Corporation Yury Slyusar.
* * *
Beginning of the meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and heads of defence industry enterprises
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we will continue our work and discuss the development of unmanned aircraft.
We know very well that they have won a reputation during armed conflicts over the past few years, we know their efficiency and the danger they can pose for us, in the context of what we have seen in Syria, namely, terrorist attacks involving drones. We have learned to repel these attacks, and we are doing this effectively.
Today, we have over 2,000 unmanned aircraft. It is necessary to continue working on them in the same intensive manner, just as we have been doing recently, and this involves the use of artificial intelligence and the most advanced achievements of technology and science. Of course, we must bear in mind the experience that we have accumulated in using these aircraft and the analysis of what we are witnessing around us.
Let us get to work.
Mr Sergei Surovikin has the floor.
<…>
See also
First meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and heads of defence industry enterprises
November 1, 2021
Final meeting with Defence Ministry leadership and heads of defence industry enterprises
November 3, 2021
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2021, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Video address to participants in forum on forests and land use within UN Climate Change Conference framework
The President of Russia addressed the participants of the World Leaders Summit on Action on Forests and Land Use held within the framework of the 26th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26) in Glasgow, UK.
November 2, 2021
12:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Video address to participants in forum on forest and land use held within 26th Conference of the Parties of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr. Prime-Minister Johnson, ladies and gentlemen,
I am pleased to have this opportunity to welcome participants in the meeting on forests and land-use.
I am convinced that the conservation of forests and other natural ecosystems is a key component of international efforts to address global warming and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. This topic fits organically into the multidimensional agenda of the Glasgow Climate Change Conference.
See also
Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests and Land Use
November 2, 2021
By aiming to build a carbon-neutral economy by no later than 2060, Russia is relying, among other things, on the unique resource of forest ecosystems available to us, and their significant capacity to absorb carbon dioxide and produce oxygen. After all, our country accounts for around 20 per cent of the world’s forestland.
We take the strongest and most vigorous measures to conserve it. We improve forest management, and fight illegal logging and forest fires. We are expanding reforestation areas. We have been consistently increasing funding for these purposes.
 Russia supports the draft joint declaration on forests and land-use proposed for approval at today’s meeting. We expect its implementation to facilitate closer partnerships between all interested States in forest conservation. This will undoubtedly serve to fulfill the objectives of reducing levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere set out in the Paris Agreement.
I would like to wish all of us success and all the best.
Thank you.
Topics
Energy
Environment
Foreign policy
UN
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2021, 12:30
Text version