Events
Meeting with heads of foreign companies
On the sidelines of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, the head of the Russian state met with the heads of major foreign companies via videoconference.
June 4, 2021
18:40
St Petersburg
Meeting attendees included the heads of companies from Sweden, Germany, Finland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Italy, Israel, the Netherlands, Lichtenstein, China, the United States of America, Spain, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Qatar, the Republic of Korea, Ireland, Greece, the Republic of Cyprus, Australia, Denmark and Luxembourg.
On behalf of Russia, the meeting was attended by First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak
, Adviser to the Russian President Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Russian Direct Investment Fund CEO Kirill Dmitriyev
and President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Alexander Shokhin
.
* * *
Russian President Vladimir Putin: Good day, colleagues,
I am pleased to meet with you on the sidelines of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
Colleagues, we realise that the risks associated with the pandemic persist, but the world, the national economies are gradually getting back to normal. Personal and business contacts are being resumed and opportunities are opening up again for launching promising projects or those that were, unfortunately, put on hold earlier, so that we can now carry out mutually beneficial initiatives. That is why I believe a direct talk like this is very important as it allows us to discuss the priority areas of cooperation, check on our plans for the future and talk about how to implement specific joint projects in our regions.
At today’s plenary meeting, I spoke in detail, as you may have seen, about the systemic efforts to boost the investment appeal of the Russian market. To achieve this, we have set out specific objectives and developed guidelines, so that, for example, as I have said earlier, it can be much more profitable, simpler and faster to build industrial facilities in Russia than in other competing countries, so that investors will choose our sites to carry out their business. All the more so as in the next few years we plan to substantially increase investment in the development of our transport, telecommunications and tourist infrastructures, as well as in projects in high technology, healthcare, urban development, and other fields that are vital to the quality of life. Russia offers great opportunities for private initiative and lucrative investment.
Let us talk today, in keeping with our tradition, about all these matters and exchange views without formalities on the issues that are important to you and your companies and that are generally seen by investors as the key to successful performance in Russia.
Of course, as usual I would like to hear your assessments. I am looking forward to receiving proposals from you regarding what tools and mechanisms need to be used additionally to promote and encourage business initiatives, given the current situation and the trends in the economy, technology, employment and the labour market that have gained momentum during the pandemic and are likely to be vital to businesses in the years to come.
Let us begin.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
Support for business
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 4, 2021, 18:40
Text versionEvents
St Petersburg International Economic Forum plenary session
Vladimir Putin took part in the plenary session of the 24th St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
June 4, 2021
17:20
St Petersburg
This year’s forum, with the theme A Collective Reckoning of the New Global Economic Reality, is one of the biggest events since the start of the pandemic. Heads of state and government, heads of major Russian and international associations, companies and banks, leading experts and politicians are taking part in discussions at the SPIEF in person or via videoconference.
Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria Sebastian Kurz
and Emir of the State of Qatar Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani attended the plenary session via videoconference. President of Argentina Alberto Fernandez
and President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro
sent video messages to the participants.
* * *
Stanislav Natanzon, plenary session moderator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
I am happy to welcome you all at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
This is the first global event of this level that people are attending in person, or at least it is a ‘hybrid’ event, to use the new buzzword. In any case, it is good to see you again. I think we have quite a backlog of topics for discussion, and I really hope the conversation today will be vibrant, frank and intense.
By tradition, we will first give the floor to the leaders and then we will have a discussion.
Mr President, please, you are the first to have the floor.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness Emir Tamim, Mr Federal Chancellor Kurz, ladies and gentlemen, friends,
I welcome all the participants and guests of the 24th St Petersburg International Economic Forum.
As you know, since the beginning of last year, most meetings at many traditional venues have been cancelled or were attended remotely because of the pandemic. We are happy that after this long break, Russia is hosting the first major international business event and providing a platform for representatives of the global business community to communicate with each other, not only using modern telecommunications, but directly. At the same time, we have certainly done our best to ensure the participants’ safety and adopted the most stringent sanitary protocols.
I repeat, the very fact that this massive forum is being held is certainly a positive sign. This once again shows that partner-like ties and contacts between entrepreneurs, investors and experts are gradually becoming customary and normal once again.
We are also witnessing the same positive global economic trends. Despite the all-out 2020 slump that, according to experts, was the greatest since World War II, one can already safely say that the global economy is returning to normal. The global GDP is expected to post unusually high growth rates this year, the biggest rise since the 1970s. As you know, experts are talking about six percent growth.
This, of course, was an effect of the large-scale and extraordinary decisions made by economic authorities worldwide. By the way, practice showed that traditional monetary policy measures would not be enough to overcome the current crisis. The budgetary policy that was actively supported by central banks in developing countries for the first time has played a key role in the rapid economic recovery.
We should understand that leading economies have many resources and tools for stimulating business activity. The statistics speak for themselves: In 2020, industrial countries’ budget deficits increased by an average of ten percent of their GDPs, while in developing countries, the growth was about five percent. And we know that these budget deficits largely finance anti-crisis measures. Of course, it is good that such solutions are available, and this is, certainly, a positive aspect. Unfortunately, there are also some negative sides to this.
As a result, we can see that global economic recovery is proceeding unevenly, given the different capabilities of different countries. This is fraught with greater disproportions and wider gaps in living standards both within certain countries and between them. And this breeds serious political, economic and social risks for the development of the modern interdependent world and for our common security. I have already spoken about this at the World Economic Forum in Davos this past January.
A case in point is our efforts to fight the pandemic. Unless we ensure broad, universal access to coronavirus vaccines on all continents, the threat of the pandemic, its new outbreaks will remain with us. Pockets of infection will survive, posing a threat to the entire planet.
What do we see now? According to the IMF, countries with a high level of income and 16 percent of the world’s population have access to 50 percent of the vaccines produced. As the result, only 10 percent of the world’s population have been fully vaccinated or received the first jab, whereas hundreds of millions of people have no access to vaccines simply because their countries do not have the required technology, production facilities or money to buy the vaccines. And the assistance being provided to these countries by those who can afford to do it has been negligibly small so far.
Regrettably, as the saying goes, it is every man for himself in the fight against the coronavirus on the global scale. The necessary volume of assistance is not being provided where it is badly needed now, or, which is absolutely absurd, politically motivated bans are imposed on the purchase of tested and effective vaccines that have been proved to be completely reliable. In the current situation this looks like unwillingness to protect one’s own citizens from this threat. This is indeed taking place; we have seen this happen.
As you know, Russia is contributing to the efforts against the coronavirus. We have created four vaccines, and these achievements of our scientists have been recognised throughout the world. For example, Sputnik V has been registered in 66 countries with a combined population of over 3.2 billion.
I would like to point out specifically that we have not only created unique technologies and promptly launched vaccine production in Russia, but we are also helping our foreign partners localise their manufacturing as well. So far, Russia is the only country doing this.
As I have already mentioned, today every adult in Russia can receive a vaccine in maximally comfortable conditions, voluntarily and free of charge. I would like to use this occasion to once again urge our citizens to make use of this opportunity to protect themselves and their loved ones. As I have said, the Russian vaccine has been declared the safest and most effective vaccine in the world, with an efficacy of over 96 percent. According to our regulatory bodies, not a single death has been reported among those who received the vaccine. I have already said this, and I can judge from my own experience: you can get a small fever, and this is the only side effect, while the protection is very strong.
In addition, I would like to ask the Government, regions and business to work jointly on the vaccination of people who come to Russia as migrant labourers. Many of them work in our construction industry, in trade and services, as well as in housing and utilities.
The domestic pharmaceutical industry is ready to continue increasing the production of vaccines. We fully meet our own requirements and can give foreigners an opportunity to come to Russia for vaccination. Given the efficiency of our vaccines, I know that the demand for them is high. Moreover, it is now common practice for people from various countries, including entrepreneurs, heads of large European and other companies, to make special trips to Russia to be vaccinated against the coronavirus.
In this context, I would like to ask the Government to analyse all aspects of this issue before the end of this month so as to organise paid vaccination for foreigners in this country, taking into account, of course, security requirements and sanitary control.
Colleagues,
Obviously now, at the stage of post-crisis recovery it is important not only to ensure sustainable growth but also to benefit from the emerging opportunities and effectively develop competitive advantages as well as the scientific and technological potential. In the process, it is very important to preserve and strengthen business and investment ties between countries.
Multilateral projects are primarily capable of reviving and developing the global economy and we are grateful to our partners for the cooperation that is continuing during the epidemic and despite the difficult situation in international relations.
Incidentally, I would like to tell you in this connection that the laying of the first line of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline was completed today, two and a half hours ago. The work on its second line continues.
In fact, the line pipe, including the offshore section, has been laid. The pipe in Germany is in place. Now parts of the pipe must be lifted and welded on the Russian side. That is all. Anyway, pipe laying is over.
The readiness of the Russian line of the gas route to the Slavyanskaya compressor station was also ensured this week. Why am I talking about this? Because this station is one of the most powerful compressor facilities in the world and is a point of departure for the new gas pipeline. Slavyanskaya has been supplied with gas.
To sum up, Gazprom is ready to fill Nord Stream 2 with gas. This route will create direct links between the Russian and German systems and will ensure energy security and reliable gas supplies for the Europeans, like Nord Stream 1. I must add that this project is profitable economically and fully conforms to the most stringent environmental and technical requirements.
We are ready to implement similar high-tech projects with our European and other partners in the future, and we hope that the logic of mutual benefit and mutual profit will inevitably prevail over all sorts of artificial barriers in the current political environment.
Now allow me to say a few words about some of the priorities on our domestic business agenda.
Thanks to the prompt and timely measures taken, the Russian economy and labour market are already approaching their pre-crisis levels. We have managed to save millions of jobs and avoid a sharp drop in people’s incomes. True, we have encountered problems. Unemployment increased and real incomes declined; we all know this. But none of that was anywhere near the disaster that could have happened, given the circumstances. That, at least, we have managed to avoid.
We have prevented a sharp drop in incomes, as I said. Our decisions to support businesses, workers, and regions have worked. The targeted assistance provided to Russian families and people who lost their jobs also came highly useful.
Indeed, difficulties with employment remain. We will probably talk about this later. We also know that the pandemic is not the only reason for the challenges we are facing such as a relatively high unemployment rate among young people or strained regional labour markets. We know we cannot blame everything on the pandemic, and we understand that some of these problems have a systemic nature stemming from unresolved structural problems in our economy.
The Government should enhance its programmes to promote employment in those constituent regions where unemployment is still high. At the same time, I emphasise, we need to continue taking targeted action, and propose solutions that take into account the economic specifics in each region. Furthermore, I am instructing the government to launch a permanent nationwide programme to support employment of young people, including measures to promote youth entrepreneurship.
It is obvious that the main, systemic response to the employment problem, and the key condition for raising people's incomes is economic growth. This is obvious, and everyone understands it. New, high-quality jobs are needed in all sectors and regions of Russia.
World history shows that the relaunch of the economy following serious shocks has always been connected to boosting investment in infrastructure, territorial development, new technologies and personnel training.
I would like to thank the Russian regions that did not take a break or find excuses amid the most difficult pandemic environment that required great concentration of resources and attention, but continued to work on improving their business climate, maintaining dialogue with businesses and attracting investors. These regions have been rightfully distinguished by the National Investment Climate Ranking. Thus, Bashkortostan, Nizhny Novgorod Region and the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area are listed among the ten best regions to invest in; Samara, Sakhalin and Chelyabinsk regions have shown good dynamics.
We will provide systemic assistance to the regions in improving the business environment. I would like to ask the Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoys to boost efforts in this area and the Government to focus on supporting the regions that have difficulties with raising investment. It is necessary to help them introduce the best management practices and improve the level and quality of work with investors.
This task is quite concrete: a transparent, predictable and comfortable environment must be provided for businesses, private investments and new projects in all Russian regions by 2024.
In particular, each region will need to outline priority development areas; this information will be open to businesses, as well as the region’s urban development and infrastructure plans for building utility lines, roads and communication systems, so that it would be easier for businesses to pick the best place for their new production site or other facility.
It is necessary to eliminate excessive links in the chain, various superfluous formalities and approvals, first of all, for the most sensitive areas such as connection to the grid, construction permits, and others.
We are consistently removing dated requirements at the federal level. Thus, starting September 1, almost 4,000 more building codes and regulations will no longer be mandatory. That will leave only 3,000 mandatory requirements in construction of the more than 10,000 we had previously. But there is still room for simplification.
I would like to note that this huge and painstaking work to streamline regulation took two years. Again, we will keep at this, while at the same time maintaining high requirements for the quality and reliability of construction.
I am asking the regional heads as well as the customers of major facilities at the federal and regional levels, and heads of our state-owned companies and private businesses to keep in mind that all construction permits will need to be prepared in line with the updated regulations and should take into account the rapid changes in construction technologies, and use advanced, highly sustainable building materials. All this will need to be considered.
In general, each region must offer an understandable, comprehensive algorithm for the investor to go all the way from project concept to the opening of a new industrial facility or a property as efficiently and quickly as possible, without wasting time or sustaining unnecessary costs.
I will once again stress the importance of cooperation between the Government and the regions. I would like to note that the performance of the federal ministers responsible for economic matters will also be evaluated by how quickly the situation improves in those regions where, as I said, there are still problems with the business and investment climate. Please do not pretend that this does not concern the federal government. This applies to everyone. We need a common result, and we need to work with the regions that need support.
Again, we should not have any so-called backward regions thrown on the sidelines of economic growth. Each constituent entity of the Russian Federation has investment and economic potential. We need to unlock and effectively use it in the interests of all Russians, for the good of all Russian families.
A programme of infrastructure loans that will give the regions an opportunity to attract long-term loans at a low interest rate will become a new instrument for their development. We have already spoken about this, discussed these matters and made public statements to the effect. In all, the actual investment in infrastructure under this programme must be no less than $500 billion in the next two and a half years.
I would like to ask regional governors to be very attentive to drafting projects for this type of funding. It is necessary to spend funds primarily on creating a comfortable environment for people and upgrading cities and other residential areas. This is a major factor of economic growth and investment appeal in the modern world, in the economy that surrounds people.
Based on the best international standards and the experience of rating the investment climate, the Agency for Strategic Initiatives drafted, in cooperation with experts and commissions of the State Council, a national rating of living standards in the regions of Russia. It is an important indicator and I would like to tell you about our first results in this respect.
Moscow, Tyumen Region, Tatarstan, the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area and St Petersburg are in the lead for obvious reasons. They are our traditional business centres. They have long invested serious funds in infrastructure for people. Importantly, more and more Russian regions are guided by high standards and are demonstrating good dynamics in many areas. Thus, the Republic of Mordovia has one of the best education systems; Udmurtia has very comfortable conditions for launching and running businesses, while Novgorod Region leads in social protection.
I would also like to mention such an interesting integral rating indicator as the commitment of people to their region, a desire to live and work there and link the future of their children with it. Sevastopol and Kaliningrad Region are at the top in this respect.
I would like to emphasise that the rating of the quality of life in the regions makes it possible to assess the situation objectively, to see which regions have the most experience and the best practices. Moreover, this rating is primarily based on the opinion of residents themselves. This feedback allows regional managerial teams to plan work better and to focus efforts on the most sensitive problems, such as, of course, more affordable housing.
I am aware that here, at the forum panels, and in the country in general, the issue is being discussed about what will happen next with reduced-APR mortgage lending, which, as you may recall, is now available at an APR of 6.5 percent. Indeed, this programme has become one of the key anti-crisis measures to support individuals and the economy. To date, over half a million households have applied for and received this loan. An additional 2 trillion rubles, approximately, have been attracted to housing construction.
As you may know, the programme will expire very soon, on July 1. To reiterate, this was an anti-crisis programme, meaning that it was temporary.
At the same time, abruptly terminating it is, of course, not an option. We must keep in mind the important role that easy-term mortgage lending is playing in the current circumstances for resolving our people’s housing problems and developing the construction industry, which, as we are aware, is the driving force behind related industries. Therefore, I propose extending this programme in all regions for another year, that is, until July 1, 2022. We will raise the rate slightly in doing so. Some changes will be made, including setting the easy-term mortgage rate at 7 percent APR. The maximum loan amount will be set at 3 million rubles and it will be applied throughout the country.
At the same time, I would like to let you know about a new decision designed to make mortgage loans more affordable for families with children. Here is what it is about. As you may be aware, a systemic special mortgage programme for families that had a second and subsequent child after January 1, 2018, is already in place. I propose expanding this to all families with children born after January 1, 2018, even if there is only one child in the family so far. That is, to reiterate, with the birth of their first child, a family will be able to take out a mortgage loan at a rate of 6 percent and buy housing on the primary market or refinance an existing mortgage loan. The maximum amount of such a loan for Moscow and St Petersburg, as well as the Moscow and Leningrad regions, where real estate prices are objectively higher, will be 12 million rubles, with 6 million rubles available in the other constituent entities of the Federation.
Colleagues,
We hope that a better quality of life and improved infrastructure in Russian regions will make them more attractive for promising projects, for more private investment, and will open up additional opportunities for large companies as well as small and medium-sized businesses, serving as an important support for the economy, and in many ways contributing to a modern, competitive business environment. Competition is the main driver of growth and, importantly, a market mechanism that keeps prices down.
Last year, we made a fundamental, systemic decision to support small and medium-sized businesses. We halved insurance premiums for small businesses from 30 to 15 percent. We will certainly not go back on this. Moreover, we are ready to take further steps to support entrepreneurship. I will mention some of them now.
Firstly, I propose launching a new mechanism to support SME lending as soon as this year – something we call umbrella guarantees.
Here is how it works. Our development institution, the SME Corporation, will issue guarantees for loans from partner banks. In fact, it will take on some of the risks and make loans more affordable for SMEs. According to estimates, this will allow entrepreneurs to attract additional resources for development, at least 600 billion rubles by 2024.
Secondly, I know that businesses, especially small ones, sometimes complain about the high bank charges on their trade and other operations.
We have already extended the faster payment system, which enables transactions with lower charges, for non-cash payments between individuals and entrepreneurs. However, so far, this system has not been as widely used by businesses as it could be.
As a reminder, by September 1, all the so-called systemically important, backbone banks in Russia must connect to the fast payments system. I also think it would be right if the largest of them do this in the very near future, by July 1.
In addition, I have one more proposal that I think will be a pleasant surprise for those who are involved in this type of business, small and medium companies. I am suggesting that they be fully reimbursed until the end of the year for the commission they pay for using the Fast Payments System (FPS) when they sell their services or goods to individuals, to people. I repeat: the cost of FPS will be zero for these companies.
I discussed this issue with my colleagues and the Governor of the Central Bank. It will be necessary to support financial institutions through the budget and avoid discouraging them.
My third point: companies that are now using the simplified taxation plan must transfer to the general tax schedule if they go beyond the employee limit or the revenue limit. Of course, in this case a business will have to shoulder an additional fiscal burden, and this can impede growth and compel entrepreneurs to use tricks, like the artificial division of a big company into small ones.
The restaurant business is a case in point in this respect. I suggest these companies participate in the pilot programme at the start of next year to work out the process for a more comfortable transition from the one tax schedule to the other.
With respect to some details, the companies in this programme will pay no VAT if their revenue is below 2 billion rubles a year. Importantly, they will retain the right to pay a reduced insurance premium rate of 15 percent even if their personnel count grows to 1,500 people. Currently the threshold is 250 people.
Colleagues, let us see what effect this has on keeping businesses legal and encouraging companies to grow. As for making businesses legal, I think all interested people understand what I am talking about: all cheques must go through the cash register; employment must be official and purchases must be legal as well, that is, recorded in the cash register. (Applause).
Thank you. I suppose we speak the same language. For my part, I will do all I can to see that the state meets its commitments.
I will add that we have already agreed to relieve of filing a tax declaration those entrepreneurs that are working under the simplified tax scheme and using cash registers. I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues in the Government and Parliament to the relevant draft law that was adopted in the first reading last year: it has stalled since then. Please finalise this as soon as possible.
Fourthly, small and medium-sized businesses must be relieved of antimonopoly oversight that is clearly excessive. Many existing threshold numbers have not been revised for a long time now and do not match today’s economic realities, since the economy and the companies keep growing.
For example, antitrust oversight covers all companies with annual revenue of over 400 million rubles. I propose doubling this amount to 800 million rubles, thus sparing a large number of growing companies burdensome and unnecessary reporting and paperwork. I propose setting a similarly higher threshold for oversight of mergers and acquisitions. That is, if a deal does not exceed 800 million rubles, it will not require the approval of antimonopoly authorities.
And, finally, my fifth point: measures to drive demand for the output of entrepreneurs across all sectors of the economy are especially relevant now. In this regard, I propose increasing the share of goods and services that our large companies, as well as state and municipal customers, must purchase from small and medium-sized enterprises, including non-profit organisations. It should be at least 25 percent.
We have held numerous discussions on this matter. I want to draw your attention right away to the fact that we are talking about companies that operate under Federal Law 223 and the companies that work with state and municipal authorities under Law 44. I am aware there are many subtleties here. And I know well that Russian industry does not even make certain products. However, the bar must be set where I said, and the Government will finalise the finer points.
In addition, it is imperative to cut the time it takes to pay for delivered goods and services from 30 to 15 business days, which is also important. Small businesses and socially oriented NGOs must see this time go from 15 to seven days.
Of course, real companies, not all sorts of sham or affiliated operations, should benefit from these preferences. I want the oversight authorities to keep this in mind. At the same time, I am instructing the Government to make sure that procurement for state needs involves mainly Russian manufacturers, of course, in compliance with internal competition rules, in this case.
Ladies and gentlemen,
As I have said earlier, international cooperation must be instrumental in overcoming the socioeconomic consequences of the pandemic. It is all the more important for us to pool our efforts in the face of common, systemic, long-term challenges that do not depend on the situation in the market or political disputes and setups, but determine the future of entire societies in a decisive way.
What am I talking about now? What am I referring to? Primarily, the climate agenda. Scientists estimate that over 2 trillion tonnes of greenhouse gases have accumulated in the Earth’s atmosphere because of human economic activity. Every year, the volume goes up by 50 billion tonnes, gradually warming up the planet.
I often hear that Russia is not that interested in resolving global environmental problems. I can say that this is nonsense, a myth, and sometimes outright distortion. Like other countries, we feel the risks and threats in this area, including desertification, soil erosion and melting permafrost. Many of those here work in the Arctic and know that we have entire cities built on permafrost in the Arctic. If it all starts to thaw, what consequences will Russia face? Of course, we are concerned.
We are consistent supporters of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol, and the Paris Agreement. I must emphasise that there is no separate Russian, European, Asian, or American climate. All our countries bear a common responsibility for today’s world and for the lives of future generations. We must set aside political and other differences and avoid turning the transition to “hydrocarbon neutrality” into an instrument of dishonest competition where attempts are made to change investment and trade flows in someone’s specific interests under the pretext of the hydrocarbon footprint, and where limited access to advanced ‘green’ technology becomes a factor in deterring individual countries and manufacturers.
How do we see Russia’s contribution to countering climate change? I am sure environmental and climate projects in our country will play a leading role in global efforts in climate conservation by virtue of Russia’s size, place and role in the world. We have set a goal: in the next 30 years the accumulated amount of pure greenhouse emissions must be lower in Russia than in Europe. This is an ambitious goal, but I am confident that it is feasible. I would like to ask the Government to draft a detailed plan of action on this before October 1 of this year. We will discuss this issue at a separate meeting.
What are our areas of focus?
The first one includes projects designed to reduce emissions throughout the economy. I have already mentioned that the Russian energy sector is increasing its share of low-carbon sources primarily through building nuclear and hydroelectric power plants and using renewable sources of energy. We have the world’s largest gas reserves, and while gas – we will probably discuss this later – is, of course, carbon, it is the purest kind of carbon, and we will be unable to do without it during the transition period.
Incidentally, using its nuclear industry as the foundation, Russia is already creating infrastructure for the production of hydrogen to be used as a raw material, fuel and energy source in metallurgy, the production of cement, and transport, among other areas.
We will also keep reducing emissions from hydrocarbon production and utilising associated gas. By the way, we probably utilise more gas this way than any other oil-producing country. We will thoroughly modernise the thermal power industry and electrify gas transport infrastructure. We also plan to further improve energy efficiency in the residential sector and heat supply systems, to switch public transport to natural gas, electric and hybrid engines, and to reduce material consumption in construction. In a word, we are talking about end-to-end technological retrofitting of our entire economy and infrastructure.
Clearly, such projects need market incentives in order to be launched successfully. To this end, we are starting to issue state-subsidised ‘green bonds.’ Also, we have developed performance criteria for environmental projects or a ‘green taxonomy’ in the parlance of experts.
Of course, reducing emissions is not enough to overcome the challenge of global warming. Greenhouse gas sequestration is essential if we want to achieve carbon neutrality. It is important to reduce existing levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, and our main goal is to learn to capture, store, and make productive use of carbon dioxide coming from all sources.
Now, regarding a second area in this context: an entire industry, a fundamentally new market for so-called ‘carbon units’ is being created almost before our eyes. Many people, especially those in power production, are aware of this, but I will explain. This is the amount of harmful airborne emissions that can be absorbed by a section of land or forest. So, if you have done some additional work on your land to increase its ability to absorb the emissions in the air, you have created a number of carbon units. Many countries and associations are already planning to accept these units from exporters to offset the emissions from the production of imported goods.
Russia has enormous potential for emission absorption with its forests, tundra, agricultural lands and marshlands. Our country has a fifth of the world’s forests; they occupy almost 10 million square kilometres. Specialists and scientists believe that they are already absorbing billions of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents every year.
I repeat, the importance of Russia’s potential in natural compensation is enormous, simply huge in terms of the planet’s climate sustainability. Clearly, by virtue of its natural advantages, Russia can maintain a special place in the global market for carbon units. To achieve this, we need to use the forests and lands more effectively and enhance their absorption capacity. We must increase reforestation areas, fight wildfires, and expand pristine nature reserves, sanctuaries and national parks. In effect, we are now doing all this and intend to continue to do this in the future while introducing new soil-recovery agro-technology.
Importantly, we can work towards three objectives at the same time. Firstly, by investing in technology, the protection of forestry and land improvement, we will enhance the environmental wellbeing of our people, and the cities and territories they live in. Secondly, we will create jobs in the new high-tech industry of greenhouse emissions mitigation, and third,ly we will provide our exporters with an additional dimension for competitiveness in foreign markets.
This concerns many of you here in this hall. I would like you to see this as a direct message to Russian companies that are buying or starting to buy carbon units abroad or are planning to do this in the future. Instead, it is better to invest funds in climate projects in our country. Eventually, those who engage in this will receive many benefits, economic benefits. This effort will be more effective and oriented towards the future.
I would like to note that, based on our estimates, revenue from this new climate industry in the Russian market could soon surpass $50 billion a year, which is another important figure. In a word, this is a good, beneficial destination for investment by both domestic and foreign companies. We invite our interested partners to take part in this work. We will create the necessary conditions for this.
I would like to discuss several issues that are of critical importance for climate projects in Russia. It is necessary to work through in detail the criteria underlying these projects, to determine the sites and areas that are best suited for launching them, and the kind of technologies to use.
It is also imperative to create a transparent and objective system for assessing the outcome of climate projects. This is a critical part of what I am saying now – that is, to identify the current absorbing capacity of the sites and what it will be after the project is implemented. Actually, it is about calculating the delta in the form of the “carbon units” that I just mentioned.
All the while, it is important to monitor the emission and absorption of greenhouse gases based, among other things, on observations from outer space, digital technologies, and AI methods.
The construction of such a national system that makes use of the potential of Russian science is already underway in Russia. We are creating a network of “carbon testing grounds” to monitor carbon dioxide emission and absorption in real time, as well as the state of environmental systems, the quality of water resources and other variables.
We are also creating a pilot carbon market in Sakhalin Region. This experiment will come as a step towards achieving carbon neutrality and creating a nationwide carbon unit market.
I am aware that a system of this kind is about to be launched in other countries as well. Here is another important matter, which concerns mutual recognition of greenhouse gas emission and sequestration. This requires a transparent climate statistics system, mutual understanding between states and, of course, joint scientific research. We are open to this cooperation.
I am instructing the Government, by July 2022, to fully form the regulatory framework for implementing climate projects in Russia at the level of federal laws and departmental bylaws and guidelines, so that businesses, domestic and international alike, can draw up and implement their plans in this area relying on clear and easy-to-follow rules and criteria.
Colleagues, let me close by saying again that, despite the challenges presented by the global pandemic, life is gradually returning to normal. To reiterate, our meeting in St Petersburg is a case in point. Next week, St Petersburg will be hosting matches of the 2021 UEFA European championship which is getting underway.
On this note, I would like to convey my greetings to our great friend, the Emir of Qatar. It was his birthday yesterday. Our best wishes to you, Your Highness. I am confident that Qatar will host the FIFA World Cup 2022 with great success.
Such major events and forums truly unite and bring people from different countries closer. Businesspeople, of which there are many here, are well aware that in-person contacts based on mutual trust move forward, in many respects, business projects and initiatives, and, therefore, the global economy.
Russia will do its best to create every opportunity for these contacts to take place, for sharing experience and demonstrating the latest achievements in science and technology.
Thank you for your patience and your time, and I wish the forum every success.
Thank you very much.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr President, you reported great news about Nord Stream 2. I think we will talk about it further in our discussion.
I would like to clarify something about your remarks. You called small and medium-sized businesses the basis of Russian economy. However, we all know how big the share of the state-owned sector is in the Russian economy. The Audit Chamber – Mr Kudrin, if he is present here, will confirm it – believes that the share of the state economy, the state-owned sector will only grow as a result of the pandemic.
You spoke about ways to support the economy. We know that a fairly large amount of money is earmarked for that. Will you please tell us if that money will go to the state sector and then the private investors in this room can relax, or will it go to private investors? Do you place your stake on state companies or private ones?
Vladimir Putin: It is common sense that I place my stake on, and the specific conditions the world and the Russian economy are facing.
The share of the state is growing all over the world, in all countries, during a time of crisis. It happens everywhere, just look and see. As soon as the situation stabilises, the number of private businesses grows, both the number of companies and their turnover. There is nothing new for Russia here.
We have large companies with state participation, such as Gazprom, Rosneft and others. But they are only partially owned by the state, they are not state-owned companies in the direct meaning of the word. However, we are perfectly aware and understand that we must move further in the direction of privatisation. And it is what we are doing.
Consider this: I mentioned some of our companies, Rosneft, for instance. Sitting opposite me is Sberbank chief. Foreign shareholders there make up almost a half – 47 or 48 percent. You see, it is wrong to claim that Russia radically differs in this respect from other countries
What did I speak about in my remarks? That we will support small and medium-sized businesses, including at the expense of our large companies that are partially owned by the state. We task them with purchasing goods, for example, from small and medium-sized businesses – which are not state-owned companies – in the amount of a quarter of their total purchases. This is direct support for small and medium-sized businesses, for the private sector.
Speaking about privatisation processes, they are ongoing in our country. We just try to do it carefully and take the market situation into account: what can be sold, at what price and whether we should sell under the current condition at all.
Nevertheless, our cardinal goal is to develop market relations in the country, to support private business and attract private investors.
(Next, Emir of the State of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani and Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria Sebastian Kurz addressed the plenary meeting participants via a video link. President of Argentina Alberto Fernandez and President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro also sent their video messages of greetings to the attendees.)
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr President, as I watch the video presentations and addresses, I keep thinking: why did we all get together here? Has the pandemic ended or what?
Vladimir Putin: We have gathered here in the way that was recommended to us by specialists, by sanitary doctors. They believe gathering in this format is fine.
Unfortunately, we were unable to welcome the top officials who are attending our event online. The problem is not with the top officials but with the fact that they are accompanied by large delegations. Doctors told us that this would be hard to monitor and this is why we should exercise caution.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that some of our colleagues sitting here in the room are wearing masks and gloves.
Stanislav Natanzon: But half of the world are staying at home.
Vladimir Putin: Half of the world are staying at home. Our situation is better than in many other countries. However, the pandemic is not over yet and we must watch out.
It is summer, people are mixing, there are a lot of contacts. Regrettably, many people keep thinking the way they used to, that they will not be affected, and they ignore the recommendations doctors are urging us to follow.
Nevertheless, the current situation in Russia and St Petersburg allows us to hold such events without any particular risk of spreading the infection. We are doing what corresponds to the current situation in Russia.
Stanislav Natanzon: All right.
Before I begin asking about the economy, investment and money, allow me to inquire about an important matter – football. I am referring to you, of course, Your Highness.
The pandemic. Everyone is seeing what happened, for instance, with the Olympics, which have been rescheduled. Spectators are now completely uncertain about how the games will be held, and, of course, a question arises.
In 2018, Vladimir Putin handed over a symbolic FIFA World Cup ball to Qatar. We remember that FIFA acknowledged that the World Cup in Russia was one of the best in many years, if not the best in terms of organisation. Will you please tell us if Qatar is going to beat that benchmark, how preparations are proceeding for the FIFA World Cup and whether it will be held next year because of the pandemic? How has the pandemic affected the preparations?
Emir of the State of Qatar Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani (retranslated): You said President Putin handed over a symbolic football to us in 2018. In reality, what Russia did, largely thanks to President Putin’s efforts, and what our Qatari people working in the international football organisation did – they did everything possible for us to hold the World Cup at a high level.
We are now getting ready for this remarkable event and we believe that any procrastination in the preparations would be unacceptable. We think that everything must be held on schedule. The 2021 FIFA Arab Cup in November will be a very important rehearsal.
The pandemic has struck the entire world and not just Qatar. Overall, everything is proceeding to schedule. There are some delays on several facilities but it does not cause any concerns and Qatar is ready from the point of view of transportation efforts and infrastructure. There is no doubt that Qatar will host this championship. As I have said, Russia showed excellent results in preparing for that championship in 2018. The whole world witnessed that. Russia set a very high standard. We will certainly use Russia’s experience. We hope that Russia will help us organise the championship in Qatar also at a high level. This high standard will be an incentive for us and I think our championship will be held at a high level.
Stanislav Natanzon: Let us get back to the economic agenda. This is even more fitting since you, Mr President, have just announced that the first line of Nord Stream 2 appears to have been completed.
Mr Chancellor, we would like to hear your opinion. We have seen the US attitude to this project in the past years: sanctions and restrictions were imposed that delayed the launch of Nord Stream 2. Do you think there are more risks, that the project will not be competed, or it will definitely be finished?
Is there a chance that even after the construction is completed, your companies that are part of the project will not get gas from this pipeline?
Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria Sebastian Kurz (retranslated): It is true, Austrian companies are taking part in this. We, as well as Germany and some other European countries, see it in a positive way. Of course, other countries, such as Greece, are also interested. But we are convinced that the routes have been laid the way they should have been. Of course, we hope that we will be receiving gas both in Austria and other parts of Europe. We will definitely need gas supplies for a long time.
Indeed, Nord Stream 2 now provides us with safe modern gas pipeline routes. And this project must definitely be completed under the provisions you have mentioned.
According to our estimates, we are very optimistic about it. We hope it will be implemented, and so does Germany as well as other European countries. We also hope that it will ensure Europe’s energy security and will be good for Russia because we do buy a lot in the Russian market.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr President, do you think there is still a possibility that Nord Stream 2 will be stopped by US sanctions after all, or that using it will be impossible due to US sanctions?
Vladimir Putin: I would like to say, as I have said repeatedly, I want to stress that this is a purely economic, commercial project.
If someone thinks or considers its goal is to bypass certain transit countries, that is not true. Because the route along the bottom of the Baltic Sea from Russia to the Federal Republic of Germany is shorter in terms of kilometres – I want to be heard once again – shorter than via European countries – Ukraine, Slovakia, Austria and so on. This route is shorter and cheaper. This is number one.
Secondly, there are no political risks regarding transit countries and there is no need to pay for the transit. It is economically more viable. It means that the end consumer in Germany – both the utilities companies, households and the economy – will be getting it cheaper than via transit through several European countries. It is just economically more practical.
We said it a hundred times; still some sort of malign propaganda keeps being stuffed into people’s heads with the idea that there is politics at play here and a wish to bypass some countries. Why do you think our partners are fighting for this project the way they are, to please us? They are fighting for their national interests, that is what they are fighting for.
I think it must be completed, especially as the new US administration keeps saying that it wants to build good relations with their major partners in Europe. How can one build good relations with their partners and at the same time not care about their interests? This is pure nonsense.
Next. Our gas source is the cleanest in the world. Let me tell you why. Because the US gas industry extracts approximately 77 percent, over 70 percent of gas by fracking whereas Gazprom uses fracking to extract only 11 percent. But the gas that will be transported via Nord Stream 2 is pumped straight from under the surface. There is no fracking at all. Meanwhile, fracking is a catastrophic way to extract gas from the environmental point of view. Dozens and hundreds of tonnes of chemicals are pumped underground when fracking. This causes direct damage to the environment. We all keep talking about the environment – and here you are, this is the most glaring example of what is being done and how.
Sanctions are generally harmful for the world economy; they reduce the world economy instead of helping to expand it. But in this case, it is just a way of achieving unfair competition.
If we talk about such a source of energy as natural gas for the world economy, let us keep in mind that it is the best, most wanted product for the fairly long period of transition to green energy. Of all hydrocarbons it will remain in the market the longest since it is the most environmentally friendly carrier.
I think such projects are being implemented to meet the interests not only of Russia but also of its partners in Europe, I am sure of that, and they must be implemented.
I have already said that the pipe-laying for the first line has been completed. I hope that the second line with a capacity of 27.5 billion cubic metres will be completed within a month and a half or two, most likely two months.
Stanislav Natanzon: And when will the deliveries begin?
Vladimir Putin: Now, I repeat, we need several days to… Here is Mr Miller sitting opposite me, he tells me about it every day. Two pipes have been laid, the laying operations are over. Now these pipes must be lifted from both sides – the one that came from the German shore and the one from the Russian shore, then welded, and that is it. It will probably take ten days. Gazprom is ready for deliveries, but everything will depend on the German regulator.
I do not know if the German government delegation has come back from Washington or not; they had talks on how to build their relations with their US partners. Their gas is more expensive, do you see? To say nothing of the way it is extracted, which, let us be frank, is barbaric. On top of that it is 25 percent more expensive. Either buy a cheaper product of a higher quality from us, or buy a product which is extracted in a complicated way from the environmental point of view, let us put it this way.
Germany’s Greens advocate buying American LNG. But if they are really green, they should know that over 70 percent of the gas is extracted by fracking, and what it means for the environment. Let us look at this systematically and honestly, and draw conclusions. And the conclusions are that the gas here is more environmentally safe, cleaner, cheaper and more reliable. This is why our partners opted for this project.
(Applause.)
Stas Natanzon: But the thing is, the pipeline currently in operation nurtures entire regions of Europe. Just recently Ukrainian President Zelensky stated this…
Vladimir Putin: Do you think we must feed everyone? What, are we obliged to feed everyone?
Stas Natanzon: The Ukrainian President said that they will have no money for their army when Russian gas stops transiting across Ukraine.
Could you tell us whether the Ukrainian gas pipeline system will be needed when Nord Stream 2 is completed?
Vladimir Putin: I asked my press secretary, Mr Peskov, to say a few words about this but as I have the opportunity to say that myself, I will. Look, first, we still have a gas transit contract with Ukraine. We will be pumping up to 40 billion cubic metres over the next five years. In better years the volumes were, I think, nearly 200. In 2018, we delivered to Europe over 200 billion cubic metres of gas. If we had normal relations, we would have delivered a major part of this through Ukraine.
But Ukraine comes up with problems in this area, problems that have emerged not so much in politics but rather in the economic sphere because of their having a monopoly on gas transit creates the illusion, on the one hand, that they can raise transit prices sky high and on the other that they can try to make the gas price, which they buy directly through their contracts with Russia, as low as possible.
Monopolies are bad, that’s exactly the point. It is not even about politics, all this began earlier. A while back we signed a memorandum with Ukraine. Mr Chancellor, the former Chancellor of Germany Gerhard Schroeder is present here. I, your humble servant, Mr Schroeder as Chancellor and Mr Kuchma, the then President of Ukraine, signed a memorandum on moving towards establishing, on the basis of the Ukrainian GTS, a consortium of Russia, Ukraine and European partners – not just with the Federal Republic of Germany but also with other partners. All that would remain Ukraine’s property and the consortium would repair, maintain, develop it and so on.
Then another president came to power, Mr Yushchenko, and all that was scrapped. Then delivery scandals began and by 2008 deliveries stopped altogether because Ukraine blocked the transit. These are the risks, do you understand? The point is not that Ukraine has no money to maintain its army. At present they get $1.5 billion from us. They could receive three, four or five (billion). You wrecked everything with your own hands.
But, let me repeat, we have a five-year contract for 40 billion [cubic meters per year]. However, we proceed from the assumption that deliveries to Europe will be growing. The delivery volume may increase by 50 billion cubic metres in the coming ten years. There has been record-high consumption and record-high purchases in the first quarter of this year. Last year we delivered around 180 billion while this year we can go beyond 200 billion cubic metres because demand is on the rise, the economy direly needs gas as it is developing and recovering from the pandemic. But in the coming ten years delivery volumes to Europe may increase by another 50 billion. There you have it, there is an opportunity to use the Ukrainian gas pipeline network in the future, even after our transit contract expires.
Everything is possible, we are ready for this and we want it to happen, but goodwill from our Ukrainian partners is required. They should be spending money not on sustaining their army and utilising it to resolve their problems in Donbass by force, but on boosting their economy, working with people, see what I mean?
We proceed from the fact that we have complicated relations with Ukraine’s leadership, yet we take into consideration how people are getting on there. If only we had normal relations. Currently the gas price for the population is around $62–$63 per a thousand cubic metres. And what do you think the price in Ukraine is? Yesterday at the gas hub (that Ukraine pays) price stood at $330 dollars per thousand cubic metres. Add transporting, and Ukrainians get their gas for about $350. Belarus pays about three times less for our gas than the hub price, I will not give the numbers now whereas Ukrainins pay more than that, you see?
We need to establish normal economic relations. We want this and are ready for it. We hope that one day their decision-making will be guided by first and foremost common sense.
Stas Natanzon: Let’s look more broadly at the gas market, not just as it concerns deliveries via Nord Stream or other routes.
Look, we are having a plenary discussion here: there is Austria which uses the euro, and there is Russia and Qatar, which have natural gas. Will you please explain why Russia and Qatar sell their gas to the euro zone for dollars? Why do you need an intermediary?
Let us begin with Mr Chancellor, Mr Chancellor, why do you buy Russian gas and other goods for dollars even though you have euros?
Sebastian Kurz (as translated): I think I can give a very simple answer to this question. We have an international system, which explains why prices are calculated in US dollars. Our currency matters for us. It is a system that has proved itself over time.
If we look at the Austrian economy, it has been developing very well in the past decade. Of course, we need energy security and we have secured this by leveraging a number of factors and in this respect we have made progress.
Regarding renewable energy sources, we realistically want to achieve 100 percent renewable energy by 2030. The demand for oil and natural gas still remains, so we have many good connections with many countries, with which we cooperate and have ensured secure interaction. This is the reason why we have a very positive view of the Nord Stream 2 project. We are not looking to save on transit costs. We just want to make sure it is a secure energy source.
Concerning Ukraine … We certainly want the situation in Ukraine to be settled one way or another. I think that international cooperation must develop, and the more it develops the more stability we are likely to have and the better it will be for economic development, not only in Europe but also across the world.
Stas Natanzon: You say the current system has developed this way, but it came to be way back in the previous century. We are almost a quarter into the 21st century, we are now living in 2021.
You say this payment system in US dollars is reliable. But how reliable can it be when a third external player can cut off payments at any moment? How is this reliable?
Sebastian Kurz (as translated): The point is that market prices throughout the world are indicated in US dollars, this is why it is has become acceptable. We can also pay in euros for our energy demands. But in our opinion, it should not be an issue of geopolitics for us, but rather purely an economic issue. If prices are calculated – generally speaking, it does not matter in which currency.
We should probably think about sustainable development, we should think about how we can preserve our resources and about how we can transport energy taking all this into account. That’s why we focus on the big players, it probably matters to them in which currency goods are priced. Meanwhile, we are a small country, and for us, the issue of security matters more than the issue of price.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr President, in your opinion, does the currency matter?
Vladimir Putin: Stability, predictability and reliability matter. The currency does not.
Stanislav Natanzon: Is the third wheel necessary?
Vladimir Putin: But if the currency producer, in this case the United States, does not value its national currency as an international reserve currency – and, by all appearances, the United States does not value the dollar too much since it is used as an instrument in competition and political strife – that, certainly, damages the dollar as a world reserve currency. If we look at what is happening (this is not our own data but the data from the World Bank and other international institutions), the dollar-based gold and foreign currency reserves of many countries, including allies of the United States, are diminishing, as is the scope of dollar transactions.
For now, our operators prefer to work with dollars. As an exchange commodity, oil is tied to the dollar more than gas, which is not an exchange commodity. This is why, generally speaking, we are ready to consider transactions in national currencies as well. We are already doing it with many of our country partners. We are ready to consider euro payments. Euro is completely acceptable for gas transactions. Of course, it is possible and, perhaps, it should be done. However, if oil producers no longer operate in dollars, it will seriously hit the dollar as a world reserve currency.
We do not want to use these instruments for political tinkering of any kind, and we are not going to do that. But the logic of the global economic system’s development, the global currency system, indicates that we need multiple reserve currencies to guarantee the security and stability of the global economy and the financial system. We are thinking about that carefully.
Stanislav Natanzon: Your Excellency, I would like to hear your opinion. Qatar is the largest producer of gas, LNG, and a supplier for Europe, among other regions. What does the future of the global gas market look like from Qatar’s perspective? Can you see any risks in the prospect of Europe shifting towards carbon neutrality?
Please tell us what you think.
Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani (retranslated): Yes, indeed, as you said, Qatar is a major gas supplier. We plan to increase our share to 40 percent by 2026.
Our LNG is high-quality and, naturally, we use this advantage to our benefit. We cooperate with many international companies, including Russian companies; we take advantage of this efficient cooperation and cutting-edge technologies, with due regard for security and environmental issues and other crucial aspects. As I said, we expect to reach 40 percent by 2026.
As concerns gas exporting countries, I hope that our next meeting will take place during the forum of gas producers in Qatar. We will discuss areas of our further cooperation and options for coordinating our actions. Obviously, we bear great responsibility for the future of this important energy industry. It should be noted that efficient gas use is one of the key dimensions of our vision of this future.
Thank you.
Stanislav Natanzon: The sanctions – we have heard this word several times today. Sanctions are being imposed on Russia, and Russia responds by imposing sanctions on other countries. A list of countries that are unfriendly to Russia was recently published. So far, there are two countries on this list, namely, the United States and the Czech Republic. We may discuss later why this happened. But since this is an economic forum, Mr President, I would like to ask you how to attract investment from unfriendly countries?
Vladimir Putin: By working with the people and companies in those countries who do not consider us their enemies.
A delegation of US businesspeople is traditionally present at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. A year or two ago, it was the largest one.
Stanislav Natanzon: This year, too.
Vladimir Putin: There you go.
Stanislav Natanzon: Over 200, I think …
Vladimir Putin:… 200 participants.
This is the best indicator that US business is interested in working in Russia. Despite all the political restrictions, it strives to keep its positions on the Russian market. It is interesting and promising. Some companies, our foreign partners, maintain their capitalisation precisely because they are working in Russia and have rather large assets here. Of course, this applies to energy in particular.
Therefore, we rely on the people who have enough common sense to build a positive relationship.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr Chancellor, why do you think relations between Russia and Europe have deteriorated so rapidly lately?
Sebastian Kurz (retranslated): Frankly, this is also a very negative factor for me. This upsets me. When I took office, I really hoped that the conflict in Ukraine would be resolved and we would return to positive cooperation.
In recent years, we have spoken with foreign ministers and many other people. Nothing is changing for the better, unfortunately, this is not in the interests of stabilisation. We are really witnessing a decline in relations.
The reasons may differ. Austria’s goal is to do its fair share to stop this spiral of escalation so that the situation calms down – that's what we want.
There are steps that we believe run counter to international law. They led to what is happening now, to the current situation in Ukraine. Of course, we would like to find ways for optimal cooperation and development, and a way out of this unpleasant and bad situation at the diplomatic level, for example, in the Minsk format. Many countries are interested in relieving these tensions and restoring normal dialogue. The Economic Forum seeks to promote cooperation and unity, not to fight against each other. This is the right thing to do.
All important players are aware that peace is a common cause, there cannot be peace that is against someone. We in Austria support the sanctions imposed by the European Union, because we believe there have been steps that contradict international law. But we hope there will be an opportunity to resolve this crisis through diplomacy and to build a dialogue. I think it would be in the interests of all states and everyone in Russia, Ukraine, and the European Union.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr President, Russia responds to attempted external restrictions by stimulating its domestic development. You spoke about this at length today. Last year, as we understand, was not an easy one for the entire world. Regrettably, the pandemic has killed and continues to kill many people.
The world, in effect, has split into two large camps: countries that have the money and technologies to save lives and treat people, and those lacking all that, with real tragedies happening over there. I am referring not only to regions that are located far from Europe, such as Latin America or Africa… We have Eastern European neighbours that found themselves in a very difficult situation, for example, Ukraine.
Russia, despite what many might have thought only ten years ago, is in the first category: Russia has money and technologies. Russia was the first to invent and register a vaccine, and it is conducting a large-scale widely accessible vaccination campaign, and so on. Our country has money to stimulate and support the economy. But at the same time, when the last year, a very trying one, came to an end, it turned out that Russia’s reserves had grown, while the federal budget – the Finance Minister, Anton Siluanov, is in this room, and I think he will confirm this, for he said as much – was left with one trillion rubles in unspent funds.
I think the investors in this room may ask: Why would private investors believe they should invest in Russia, if the Russian authorities themselves salt away their money and underfund their own economy?
Vladimir Putin: I do not quite understand this logic. The thing is, we did not spend the entire funds we had planned to utilise, as some experts say. There is nothing unusual here because this happens quite often. This is a case of money being set aside for specific purposes, but later this money is either not allocated or not utilised, because the operators that planned certain project-related spending may prove unprepared to accept the money and start on their projects. This is a common economic practice. Frankly speaking, there is nothing unusual about this.
However, it is true that we have the necessary resources. We will have a surplus budget this year. We have a trade balance with a decent surplus. Mr Siluanov might correct me, but I think there is around $146 billion there. Our gold and foreign exchange reserves are at over $600 billion now and growing, and the National Welfare Fund has around $159 billion. Those are the approximate figures, I may be mistaken in the details, but this is not important. These reserves are growing and this is what matters.
We decided that if the liquid portion of the National Welfare Fund exceeds 7 percent of GDP, we will spend money primarily on large infrastructure projects. But they must be properly prepared, and we must do the maths. We should not, like a rural seeder, mindlessly scatter seeds left and right like in the famous painting. Therefore, everything should be calculated and rationally spent, with maximum effect. Actually, this explains everything, rather than greed and unwillingness to spend.
Stanislav Natanzon: Then, perhaps, I will frame my question in a more straightforward manner, although I am not sure the interpreters will find it easier to translate: Is Russia going to open up the money box?
Vladimir Putin: This is what we are doing. We have already allocated significant funds from the NWF. I am sure the Finance Minister spoke, and our other colleagues from the Government must have mentioned it.
I cannot give you an exact figure now, I might be off a little, but hundreds of billions of rubles have been released for the infrastructure projects and other large projects. True, we are trying to invest them in projects that will make profit. Maybe not today, not in a year, but these projects will pay back in the long term. From an economic point of view, this is the right approach in the interests of the state.
We are already doing this and will continue to do so. These projects concern rail transport and the construction of roads, ring roads, and so on. We are already doing this. By all means, we are making these funds available for developing industrial production and building large industrial projects and facilities. Mr Mikhelson, I believe, received it. Did Novatek receive money? You see. It was for liquefying gas in cooperation with our partners from China and France. Russia supports this type of projects and releases these funds, including from the National Welfare Fund.
Stanislav Natanzon: Many businesspeople think high interest rates are one of Russia’s big problems.
Famous blogger Oleg Deripaska wrote in his Telegram channel – I do not know whether you read him or not…
Vladimir Putin: No, I do not read him.
Stanislav Natanzon: …but he keeps writing in his Telegram channel about the Central Bank: he complains that the Central Bank stints money for business, that interest rates are too high and it is impossible to develop.
Can you comment on blogger Oleg Deripaska?
Vladimir Putin: I can.
Naturally, those who take money want to do this cheaper. Those who give money, especially the Central Bank, must watch macroeconomic indicators.
Macroeconomic indicators and, generally speaking, what problems do we have in Russia today? I spoke with some of my colleagues about this yesterday and even today in the morning. At present we have two most urgent problems: the labour market – we must restore it to at least 4.7 percent to match the pre-pandemic level, and now it is 5.2 percent. The second problem is inflation, which stands at 5.8 percent. I think experts will agree it would be good if inflation fell to around 5 percent, may be a bit lower in 2021.
Therefore, the Central Bank kept its rate at a low level for our economy for a long time. It is compelled to respond to what is happening in the economy in general, getting the maximum from liquidity as well. Mr Deripaska knows this. He is an experienced and successful businessperson. Of course, he wants to get it cheaper and cheaper. The truth lies in the balance of these interests.
Stanislav Natanzon: And they say our authorities do not see bloggers’ comments.
One more problem which business discusses a lot, considering it is one of the biggest, is pressure from security agencies. Sometimes this problem becomes international, if we recall, for instance, the Michael Calvey case and some others. This case is not over yet, by the way. Human rights activists, including your business ombudsman report that a record number of entrepreneurs are currently in Moscow’s pre-trial detention facilities.
This is not only in Moscow. Once I made a programme about such entrepreneurs. One of them was from the Republic of Komi, and his name is Georgy Popov. He has been waiting for a verdict in a detention facility for four years, but there is no verdict yet.
Once you said, I quote: “All of us seem to think that if things are put right with a firm and tough hand, everyone’s life will become better, more comfortable and more secure. In reality, this comfort will expire in a jiffy because this tough hand will start strangling us in no time.” Has it started?
Vladimir Putin: Did I say that?
Stanislav Natanzon: Yes, you said it in 1996.
Vladimir Putin: I do not feel that.
Stanislav Natanzon: There is no stranglehold, is there?
Vladimir Putin: No.
But issues related to law enforcement are really essential and we must, in fact, focus on this. You know my attitude; law enforcement agencies should safeguard the interests of the state and society, and of this country’s citizens. Entrepreneurs are also citizens and they are engaged in very important business: they maintain economic activity, create jobs, and the level of people’s incomes and real pay are largely dependent on them. This is why I say this time and again: We must follow closely what is going on. It is for this reason that the ombudsman’s office has been created with the task of monitoring the observance of the rights of entrepreneurs.
I think you will agree with me that the value of an entrepreneur in itself does not give anyone the right to breach the law that is now in effect. This is why, of course, we should improve our legal system. Lately, we have made many different decisions, including those of a regulatory nature. We have enhanced the role of the Prosecutor General’s Office in this work, in supervising the activities of the operational and investigative agencies. I hope this will play a part after all.
As far as the so-called prison population is concerned, let me draw your attention to the fact that it has dwindled almost by half in Russia in recent years. Therefore, generally the legal system is being improved.
Stanislav Natanzon: But irrespective of business, do you think a person who has committed no violent crime should linger in jail for four years before being sentenced?
Vladimir Putin: You know, this is a specific case that needs to be investigated; I cannot just simply comment on it. Since you have raised this issue, I will focus on it. Of course, the faster these processes proceed, the sooner the investigation and court action come to an end, the better.
Stanislav Natanzon: About the Russian investment climate.
Your Highness, I would like to ask you a question. Qatar invests a lot in Russia, in the most diverse sectors of its economy, primarily in the energy sector, but not only there. Could you please tell us which Russian economic sectors Qatar sees as promising, and why? And, speaking of mutual projects, what attracts Russian investors in Qatar?
Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani: Qatar ranks among major investors in Russia, with about $12 billion. We invest in the most diverse sectors, including in infrastructure and in the energy sector. Some Russian companies operate in Qatar.
We have confidence in the Russian economy, in these tremendous investment volumes and their capabilities. We maintain permanent contacts with the relevant agencies in Russia while searching for opportunities to facilitate Russian corporate investment in Qatar.
As I have already said in my remarks, we will double our investment in Russia. This amounts to the most diverse investment in Russia.
This question is also very important in connection with the upcoming 2022 FIFA World Cup.
We also devote substantial attention to tourism. Qatari tourists would like to visit many places in Russia. I believe that Russian tourists would also be happy to come to Qatar. Once life gets back to normal after COVID, I believe that we will invest heavily in both countries’ tourism industry.
Thank you.
Stanislav Natanzon: Naturally, the medical sector now receives large-scale investment.
Mr Chancellor, I have read the results of opinion polls. In March, the Research Affairs Institute polled respondents in Austria. In all, 69 percent of your country’s residents would support purchases of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. We know that you have even initiated talks with the Russian Direct Investment Fund to arrange such purchases.
In your opening remarks, you said that it should not matter where the vaccine comes from, be it Russia, the United States or China. In reality, we see a somewhat different picture. We can see that, as far as the European Union is concerned, it does matter where the vaccine comes from.
Would you tell us whether Europe is politicising the vaccine issue?
Sebastian Kurz: For us, this is not a political subject, but as I mentioned in my remarks: when it comes to the vaccine, geopolitical implications should not be considered. I am very pleased that in many countries, companies have succeeded in developing these vaccines. Indeed, Sputnik V appeared on the market very early, like Moderna and some of the other products from Germany, other vaccines.
We can use different vaccines, you are right. We had a very good discussion with our Russian partners in Austria and talked about purchasing Sputnik, but unfortunately, from a legal standpoint, vaccines can only be used when they are admitted to the European market through specific institutions. This has been the case for a while with other vaccines, and it continues.
As for Sputnik, I hope this testing will be completed as well. If we had been given permission to do it earlier, then of course, we could have purchased Sputnik and used it, which would have expedited the vaccination process in Austria. But we have not received this approval yet. To protect our people, we are using vaccines that have been approved for use in the EU.
Unfortunately, so far we have vaccinated only about half of the people over 60, which is above average compared to other European countries. Of course, we have seen a decline in the death toll and in the incidence rate. In Austria, contagion is down. Compared to other European countries, we are in good shape.
We hope that this will help us, and that we will be able to open up our society soon and, thanks to this, we will be able to expand the economy and tourism, as just mentioned, because it is a very important industry for Austria, we will be able to engage in tourism again and invite visitors from all over the world.
We hope that many Russians will come to our country again to spend their vacations with us. We hope that we will be able to restore all this soon. It is very good when people from different countries get together and communicate with each other, and it is very important for the economy.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr Chancellor, in the European Union 90 percent of the vaccines are purchased from one producer.
Russia has four vaccines, so there is no monopoly as distinct from the EU where there is a monopoly of one producer. Importantly, to the best of our knowledge, agreements with this producer relieve it of liability for its vaccine. Moreover, the long-term effect of the mRNA vaccine technology is also unknown.
The EU is artificially creating a vaccine monopoly with one dominant player. Do you see the risks of this for the EU?
Sebastian Kurz: I must say I am well familiar with this situation. I have been dealing with all problems related to the pandemic for one year already. Of course, the vaccine is a very important issue both in the EU and in Europe.
As you know, we are using many vaccines in Austria. We are using other vaccines as well, Moderna and others. We will approve the use of other vaccines. We must talk more about this.
Inside the EU, we are trying to expedite the approval of other vaccines because we need to protect our population. Of course, we are monitoring these processes in the EU.
You rightly said that Sputnik has not yet been endorsed. We regret this. We would be willing to buy Sputnik for Austria and use it but, as I have already said, in Austria we can only use the vaccines that were approved for use in the EU.
I am convinced that soon Sputnik will be approved for use. I was told it is already being used in over 60 countries. I hope this will happen in the EU as well. I believe any effective and safe vaccine will be used.
I think we are following the right road in international cooperation and will not allow a monopoly. It does not exist. But, as you rightly said, Sputnik is not yet allowed. Since it is already being used in many countries around the world, I hope it will get approval in Europe as well.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr President, when you read headlines or statements from European politicians, not Sebastian Kurtz, but others who say that the vaccine is a Russian weapon, the vaccine is a Russian pressure tool, what do you think?
Vladimir Putin: I think it is competition for money on the part of those who make similar products in other countries and want to enter the European market. They do this with their usual brilliance. They are good at it.
It is not just about reading headlines. I will not mention names, well, I was talking with one EU leader, and he said to me, you want to split our countries apart and strike separate deals. Why don't you apply to the relevant European agency? I say, we already did. He says, no you didn’t. I say, yes we did. He says, no. I say, maybe I am wrong, and immediately, I call Golikova and ask her if we have applied. She says, of course we did, last year. And only in March, the relevant European agency announced it was starting the review procedure. As you see, they are still reviewing it.
Stanislav Natanzon: It is difficult to review.
Vladimir Putin: What does that mean? It is about certain interests, and those engaged in the same industry ensure their interests by securing the market for companies they have been working with for many years. It is a layered system of mutual interests, but I will not go into details now.
What you just said about politics is just a tool for ensuring commercial interests, that's all. Apart from this, there is nothing else there.
Different European countries behave differently, and not necessarily for political reasons, but because some of them have the appropriate national agencies, labs that evaluate pharmaceuticals, while others don’t, and they have to wait for the European regulator’s decision. Those who have labs, they make their own decision like Hungary, for example. Hungary has certified and is rolling out Sputnik V.
I know a political agenda is always present, to some extent, but in this case, I would say we are mostly dealing with economic, commercial interests that are hurting the interests of the citizens of European countries.
Stanislav Natanzon: Russia was the first to invent and register the coronavirus vaccine. Of course, it is telling that it is called “Sputnik” just like the first Soviet satellite, we all understand this analogy. The first man in space, again, comes from the same land.
Back then, when space was being conquered, the entire country was fascinated by cosmonautics, and now, during the era of vaccination, for some reason, Russians are not really in a hurry to get vaccinated. Why?
Vladimir Putin: You see, there are many reasons. Not everyone gets the flu jab in our country. That is the general attitude of the public.
I already said in my speech that we are ready to give a jab to everyone who is willing to get vaccinated, we will not force anyone. It is possible and necessary to encourage people to do so, perhaps it is even better if we do so. In many countries, those who get vaccinated get a free beer, or they come up with other incentives.
One can act in more civilised ways, I suppose. The most important thing here is to make sure that people understand the need, the advantages and the safety of vaccination. Apparently, we are not doing enough. We must work on ourselves first of all, I mean the bodies of authority and governance.
Stanislav Natanzon: Getting brewers involved could be a great idea, though …
Vladimir Putin: Maybe. Get a jab then get some beer and sausage – this can be done. (Laughter)
Stanislav Natanzon: Now, Mr President, on to something that the entire world is interested in today – your meeting with Joe Biden.
Please share with us what are you going to discuss with the US President?
Vladimir Putin: We will discuss bilateral issues. I believe we must try to find ways to settle our relations. Today, they are at an extremely low level, and we are all well aware of it.
We will discuss strategic stability, the settlement of international conflicts in the hot spots that cause our greatest concern, disarmament processes, fighting terrorism, and, I hope, fighting against the pandemic and the issue of the environment. This is a tentative agenda.
Stanislav Natanzon: When you had a meeting with the previous US President, Donald Trump, in 2018, just before the end of the World Cup, there were huge expectations that, perhaps, things would somehow improve. But after that meeting, it appears, even more sanctions were imposed than before. Should we expect the same now?
Vladimir Putin: You should ask Biden about that, I do not know. We are not imposing any sanctions. We respond only when we believe it is advisable to do so, so as not to harm ourselves, not to shoot ourselves in the foot.
Why our US partners are doing what they have been doing so far remains largely a mystery. I believe, I am even confident that this is primarily happening under the influence of their internal political processes. To a certain extent, Russia-US relations have become hostage to the domestic political processes in the United States.
I hope it will come to an end sooner or later. I mean that fundamental interests in security, strategic stability and the reduction of weapons that represent danger for the entire world are still more important than the current domestic political situation in the United States.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr Chancellor, we all know that an EU-US summit will take place one day before Vladimir Putin’s meeting with Joe Biden. The US President will attend this summit. In fact, he will leave for the meeting with Vladimir Putin from it.
There is a lot of talk and leaks in the press that this summit is all but designed to lay a mine under the Russia-US meeting, that it may adopt a strongly anti-Russia declaration or attack Russia with tough statements. Can you say what we should expect from the EU-US summit?
Sebastian Kurz: I do not think it will look like this. I do not believe the EU-Joe Biden meeting will concern Russia. This topic will not be at the forefront.
Our goal is to pursue and enhance our multilateral cooperation with the United States in many areas. This amounts to general international efforts.
First, these will be the issues of climate and its protection. We are sure the United States will recognise the Paris Agreement, contribute to countering climate change and reduce carbon-dioxide emissions. This is what we are expecting.
The climate does not care where emissions come from. Obviously, such a small country as Austria is willing to contribute. But if we do our part and the United States does not, it will look too dramatic. We think the US is meeting the EU for this purpose as well. They have already announced it. We hope the US will contribute to countering climate change. These are items on the agenda for our conversation. The meeting will take place on June 15.
I can say more about the meeting between the Russian and US presidents. We are a small, neutral country, and we have traditionally good relations with the West and the East. This is why we are positive in this respect. We see that relations between the superpowers are not always good. We are very glad that such a meeting will take place and that the talks will lay a good foundation. We are looking forward to the results of this meeting.
As for Joe Biden’s meeting in the EU, we are sure, Mr Moderator, that everything will be the way I described it.
Stanislav Natanzon: To be honest, we have forgotten during the past few years that Russia can be omitted from the agenda of such meetings. Quite to the contrary, we have grown used to Russia being among the top issues. Let’s wait and see how it will be.
Mr President, differences between Russia and the US include Russia’s alleged interference in the US elections. Recently, the United States frequently accused Russia of this interference. Meanwhile, Russia accuses the US if interfering in elections in Russia through NGOs, and not just in Russia.
In fact, this is not only a Russian-US problem. Take a look at a recent story, when the US Ambassador in Moldova met and held discussions with the head of the Moldova Central Election Commission and Prosecutor General on the eve of the election.
Hence my question. Since technologies, including election technologies, are becoming global, maybe the time has come to determine at a global level what should be regarded as interference and who ambassadors can meet with, and to coordinate unified rules? Is this possible?
Vladimir Putin: Theoretically, yes, but improbable at the practical level.
What is actually the problem? You mentioned differences, but we don’t have any differences with the United States. Our only disagreement is that the United States wants to restrain our development and has said this openly. Everything else stems from this position, including economic restrictions and attempts to influence internal political developments in our country based on forces they regard as their supporters. End of story.
Of course, we are monitoring the developments there. But we never interfere, we never meddle.
Much is being said now about the elections and political processes in Russia and several other countries. Elections have been held in the United States as well, and nearly half of the US voters believe that the elections were unfair. You can see this from the polls conducted in the United States by American pollsters. We did not invent this, you see? Why should we invent anything? We are not to blame for these results. We did not say this. It is the result of the polls held by American companies.
Some people were disappointed. You are well aware of what happened at the beginning of the year, when protesters stormed the Congress. Is this good or bad? There is nothing good in this. But they were not just looters or rioters. They had political demands, right? Right. As many as 450 people have been detained; criminal action has been initiated against them. Seventy people were detained immediately, and 31 of them remain under arrest to this day. On what grounds? Has anyone told us anything about this? No. But this is part of politics. Harsh charges have been levelled at many of these people, all the way to a conspiracy to seize power. Why?
Now let us not talk about Russia. Belarus, too, has many internal problems. We would like to take a neutral position; in fact, it is all up to the Belarusian people, it is their business. But the same things there are viewed from a different angle, while what is happening in the States is assessed differently. Double standards. Those should be eliminated.
Or, they say Russian law enforcement officers act too harshly during some street rallies. Now, what about shooting protesters with rubber bullets in European countries, knocking out people's eyes, killing people on the streets, using water cannons, or tear gas – is this normal?
I was speaking with a colleague of mine, one of our partners – also without names – about Belarus. I ask him, “How about your country? Is this allowed?” And he says, “We are a democratic country.”
This is ridiculous, you know. So a rubber bullet knocks out a person’s eye, and you just tell the victim – it is okay, this is a democratic rubber bullet, it is all right. But this does not make people feel any better, does it?
We need common standards, approaches and assessments that are uniformly understood. Can this be achieved? I would say it is highly unlikely, I mean because these things are being used as political pressure tools. But we need to strive for this. You know, we have all sorts of jokes about things that are impossible to be done but you should “strive” for them. So, just strive for this if there is nothing else you can do.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr President, you embarked on a dangerous path in the first part of your remarks – you seemed to be defending those who broke into buildings on Capitol Hill. Social media can interpret this as support for the rioters and block your accounts. Maybe not your accounts, but kremlin.ru, I mean.
Vladimir Putin: Firstly, I said right away I did not think what they did was good; you might not have been paying attention.
Secondly, I offered no assessments of the event. I was talking about what followed.
And thirdly, I do not care if they block me on some platform. I have more important things to care about – the Russian people’s confidence in me in this capacity.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr Chancellor, can you explain this? There were large protests in Belarus. They were cruelly suppressed and we covered this. There were large protests in the US. They were cruelly suppressed and we covered those. But the EU denounced the crackdown on the protests in Belarus and introduced fairly tough sanctions against it. The EU did not recognise the victory of Belarusian President Lukashenko. At the same time, the EU did not denounce similar actions in the US and did recognise the US President.
Can you explain the difference?
Sebastian Kurz: I see many differences. To be honest, I think we cannot compare these events.
On the one hand, we had very good contacts and cooperation with Belarus, but I still think the election was not fair or honest.
We were particularly indignant at the forced landing of the Ryanair plane and the arrest of the journalist. We, Austria and the EU, do not want to close our eyes to this and we have deliberately responded with sanctions.
We hope the situation in Belarus will change. Nobody is interested in rocking or destabilising the situation. However, we must ensure democratisation. This is important. Changes must take place for the better.
Certainly, this is an issue on which our opinions may not coincide, but we are very worried about the events in Belarus. We considered it necessary to take steps on behalf of the EU, that is, introduce these sanctions. We would feel better if the situation changed, and we would like it to change. We have economic interests in Belarus and this is why we are very interested in an improvement in the situation there. We would like to see Belarus follow the best development path and promote its civil society. We do not want journalists to be prosecuted; it is important to recognise the right to a different opinion and avoid such a tough response.
I must mention the issue of double standards. There are other examples as well. We do not think similar events can be considered normal in one country and denounced in another. This is a very important point. I insist that the situation at the Capitol cannot be compared [to what happened in Belarus]. Of course, these were dramatic events for both countries. This was a blow to US democracy. Law enforcement units had to be used to ensure security. It was not politically motivated.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr Chancellor, I would like to clarify one point. You said the EU is against the detention of Roman Protasevich in Belarus. But do you know that Protasevich, whom you simply called a journalist, fought in the Azov battalion? It was the US Congress, not Russia, that demanded blacklisting them as a terrorist group. Their symbol is a variation of the swastika. So, this man fought with a swastika on his shoulder. What do you think about this?
Sebastian Kurz: He is not a terrorist; he is a blogger and a journalist. Even if someone does not like his opinion, he has the right to express it. I can repeat that forcing a plane to land, arresting people and knocking confessions out of them, this is not considered normal.
If we take an unbiased look at the situation, we are a neutral country and have traditionally good relations with Belarus. We have many contacts. We believe there is a line and it is necessary to distinguish one thing from another. This line must not be crossed. Otherwise, we will react with the EU measures we are taking. We consider it unacceptable to cross this line. It would be great to prevent such situations altogether in the future. We must do without this. These standards must be observed everywhere.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr President, you spent the past weekend with the President of Belarus.
First, I would like to ask if you believe the story with Hamas, that the plane was forced to land in Belarus because of an alleged email from Hamas? What is the Belarusian authorities’ official explanation?
Vladimir Putin: You see, I don’t want to make any judgement on what happened in the United States or on what happened with that flight. Frankly, I don’t know.
Stanislav Natanzon: Were Russian security services involved in this operation?
Vladimir Putin: No, of course not.
I have seen a statement from NATO leadership to the effect that Russia must have been involved. Well, I can only say to this that NATO is in danger if their leaders make such statements, because it means they are simply not aware of how processes like this work.
This is done very differently, not at all how some people think it is done. No international cooperation is possible in such things, you see? In Moscow, we detained people who were planning a coup and Lukashenko’s assassination, but we did this at the request of the Belarusian KGB.
As the President of Belarus told me, they did not plan any operation like this. They only received information that this person was on that flight after his picture had been posted online. I don’t want to get involved in this matter, you know? This does not concern us at all.
Let me repeat, I don’t want to offer any evaluation of the political processes underway in Belarus. The truth is, as usual, somewhere in the middle.
Thus, it’s better not to interfere, it is better to give people time to grapple with their problems. Anyway, no matter what others say about a regime suppressing people, social change will only take place in keeping with the objective circumstances that are related to the development of a given society. It is no good interfering, never.
As for planes, I would like to remind you that a world leader’s plane was forced to land.
Stanislav Natanzon: The plane of Evo Morales.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, you are right, it was Evo Morales.
He was invited to disembark, and a head of state’s plane was searched. Nobody wants to talk about this, as if it never happened. But it did happen, and it has actually happened more than once, and not only with a presidential plane.
But with this, it took on an incredible form and was given a lot of attention. The reason is obvious. It is not only that developments in Belarus attract much attention, but also that many of our neighbours would like to influence them. Not that it is prohibited to notice things, but it is better not to interfere in others’ internal affairs. This is what I wanted to say.
Stanislav Natanzon: As for Evo Morales, I talked with him about that story. He and his team regard this as a national humiliation. But they are trying to downplay the story, so nobody thinks about it because there is nothing they could do about it.
Getting back to the Ryanair aircraft, Roman Protasevich was on the national wanted list, which is why he was detained.
Vladimir Putin: Stanislav, sorry for interrupting you.
We have a huge audience here. St Petersburg is hosting an international economic forum, and you are pestering us with these questions, me and the Chancellor. Who is Roman Protasevich? I neither know nor care about him, let him do what he wants, fight Lukashenko’s regime…
Stanislav Natanzon: I am not talking about him, actually.
There are people on Russia’s wanted list. Would Russia force a plane, for example, a flight from London to Thailand, to land if there was a wanted person on board? The London-Thailand flight goes across Russia.
Vladimir Putin: I will not say.
Stanislav Natanzon: All right.
Let us talk about the economy then, back to the economy. How deep will the economic – and not just economic – integration be between Russia and Belarus?
Vladimir Putin: We have a fairly high level of mutual trade, almost $30 billion. It is quite a large figure for Belarus, with a population of 10 million. This already says a lot. We have broad cooperation, industrial cooperation first of all. I believe this is very important. We will expand it further, and we will go about this as it is done anywhere else in the world – we will look for options and ways of working together that would meet the interests of both countries. We have every reason to believe we will be able to achieve this in industry, agriculture and energy. In this sense, we are no different from the rest of the world – the buyer wants a cheaper bargain, and the seller does not want to undersell.
We are going to find optimal solutions as part of the Union State as well as in the EAEU. We have certain plans for the coming years, including some in the energy sector that should be implemented by 2024.
We are keeping with this plan. Yes, we argue. Yes, we sometimes disagree or are dissatisfied with each other, but overall, the work is being done in a positive manner and with good results.
Stanislav Natanzon: Another important economic issue is the tax system in Russia. You have said more than once that a stable tax system is a signal to business; it is very important for businesses because they can make long-term forecasts.
Meanwhile, we remember that Russia upped the VAT in 2020, and personal income tax this year. Now there is talk about the Government intending to observe large companies for a while to see how they pay dividends and, perhaps, to impose an additional tax on them if they are too greedy, a “tax on greed.”
Just days before the forum, reports said the Government might charge an additional 100 billion rubles from metallurgy companies, because the Government believes the metals sector has conned the state – this is not my quote –out of 100 billion rubles.
Vladimir Putin: To begin with, our tax system is generally stable. Indeed, the government must respond to what’s happening around the world and in our economy and do it carefully on a case-by-case basis so the entire fabric of economic relations in the country is not damaged.
You mentioned tax increases [in some cases]. Earlier today, I also talked about tax cuts, for example, I said that small and medium companies in retail and restaurants would not pay VAT. This is what I said earlier. There have been both tax cuts and tax increases but, overall, the situation can be described as balanced. What we need to keep in mind is that we keep the fiscal load affordable and stable. By and large, the government has managed to achieve this.
As for metals manufacturers, I am asking my colleagues – I know them by name as we have been acquainted for many years – to not be offended by Mr Belousov. He might have sounded somewhat sharp in the heat of the debate. Why is that? The fact of the matter is that the situation in the market has changed, and the industry began taking in excess profits. It’s quite obvious. Then, of course, this industry wants high profitability not only from exports but domestically as well. It’s understandable; why should they lose money if they can earn it?
On the other hand, this can lead to some imbalances in the economy. Why? For example, a company wants to buy vehicles and they sign contracts and are ready to pay, but the vehicle manufacturer says, “You need to pay 68 percent more.” The buyer asks, “Why?” The reply is: “Because the cost of steel has gone up.” Then the entire chain falls apart. The same goes for the defence and construction sectors, etc. This is not just in steel, it affects many industries, including, say, the energy sector and the oil industry. As soon as prices increase in world markets, there are also attempts to boost prices in the domestic market. No sooner had the price of wheat [in the world market] gone up than it started to climb in the domestic market as well, pushing up the price of bread.
I talked about one of our problems today: inflation. The problem can also be ascribed to, among other things, inflation. We should keep this in mind. There are well-known tools that can help smooth out these problems, including customs and tariff policy and other related measures. We take this approach, for example, with the oil industry, where the managers have already worked out a certain action algorithm, so that their industry is not affected too much either: when prices go down relations between the sector and the government are adjusted accordingly, and when prices go up, they are also adjusted accordingly.
The same can be done in the metals industry. We might switch to long-term contracts, for example, with defence plants or construction companies. These so-called anchor orders are also important for the steel industry. If they know certain sales are guaranteed, it means a lot, including for the development of our major metals manufacturers. This would not necessarily be fixed-price contracts, it would be enough to set out certain rules and develop a pricing plan, and that would work. It is important to do this at the right time and then the right algorithm would be developed.
Stanislav Natanzon: Ladies and gentlemen, we must quietly finish our very interesting conversation. Allow me to ask the final question.
We live in an incredible world where everything, all standard laws and rules seem to be collapsing. This is only positive for us, journalists, because we always have something to talk about. We are seeing that even powerhouse organisations like the WTO, for example, are being destroyed by sanctions. We are seeing that even the UN finds it difficult to cope with all this.
Here is my last question for all of you: how do you visualise the post-pandemic world? Please be as brief as possible. What will the world’s main configuration be, in what way might it change?
Mr Chancellor, let’s start with you.
Sebastian Kurz: I have learned one lesson from the pandemic. We, people, will always face a challenge. It would be good if we tried countering our challenges together without creating additional problems as we do sometimes, unfortunately. This is a proposal for an international effort and for peaceful cooperation.
At the beginning of the pandemic, a lot was said to the effect that after the pandemic everything would be difficult, that it would not be what it was, that people would not travel, that there would not be any major public events and many other things. However, I think the opposite is happening. I have the impression that due to the vaccine the disease rate in Austria has gone down and that the world is returning to what it was before. People want personal contact; they want to socialise with each other. It seems to me that after the pandemic our world will be about the same as it was before. We will simply return to normal.
The main thing is to do this as quickly as we can, to achieve economic success and restore our economy. I think the pandemic may become a lesson for us about the importance of being healthy, attentive and considerate towards the entire world.
Of course, this pandemic has shown us that we must work for economic recovery and focus on areas like digitisation and environmental protection. We must work hard on these things. That’s what I think.
Stanislav Natanzon: Is there anything you would like to add to that, Your Highness? Your view on the post-pandemic world.
Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani: Of course, we are still living amid the pandemic. Many major economies, many countries have suffered, but some countries have already shown visible signs of economic recovery. In Qatar, and I am proud to say it, we have been able to overcome many problems associated with harmful influences. Now we have great experience in dealing with situations like this by taking quick and effective action.
Of course, international cooperation is important, especially when it comes to producing new vaccines and distributing them throughout the world. We want to get it over with as soon as possible. Everyone around the world should have equal access to all vaccines. Legislators and other specialists must do their part in order for us to be able to fulfill this goal.
Indeed, the world could change, but I would like to share the opinion of my friend, the Federal Chancellor of Austria, that, above all, we will have great experience as a result, and we will be able to cope faster with problems like this in the future.
Thank you.
Stanislav Natanzon: Mr President, how will the world change?
Vladimir Putin: First, the pandemic has shown us all how vulnerable we are – this is my first point.
Second, we have realised the role and importance of science and high technologies, as well as joint efforts in overcoming common crises. We have come to realise that we can only achieve the results we need if we join our efforts.
The pandemic has certainly given a boost to high-tech and advanced types of production and to what determines and what will determine progress in the near future – I am referring to artificial intelligence, information technology, and so on.
But, in my opinion, the most important thing is that we realised that good health and human communication are of the highest value. We all lacked this during the pandemic and are still lacking it. We realised that good health and human communication are our highest values.
We must keep this in mind when building our life in the near and the more distant future.
Stanislav Natanzon: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
Someone said during the forum that this time the St Petersburg International Economic Forum is reminiscent of September 1, which is the first day of school, when we reunite after not seeing each other for a long time and give each other a hug.
Let's hope that we will not have to remain apart anymore, because we can do more together.
Vladimir Putin: I want to thank you all, most notably, the Emir of Qatar and the Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, for taking part in our discussions and our event today, and wish you all the best.
Thank you.
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Investment
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 4, 2021, 17:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with heads of international news agencies
On the sidelines of the 24th St Petersburg International Economic Forum, Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with heads of international news agencies.
June 4, 2021
23:00
St Petersburg
3 of 9
During a meeting with heads of international news agencies.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues.
It is a pleasure to greet you all.
Our meetings at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum have become regular. They always wrap up a day of work at the St Petersburg Forum, at least for me: as a dessert, a sweet, the most exciting part begins at our meetings. I hope, this will run the same way, too. Greetings to everyone.
I would like to skip the long opening speech and give the floor to our moderator. I think it will be more interesting and useful if we start a live discussion straight away.
Mr Mikhailov, please.
TASS Director General Sergei Mikhailov: Good evening, Mr President. Welcome, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Good evening, and for some of you it is good night or even good morning.
I want to thank you for responding to the TASS invitation. It would be unforgivable to miss such a conversation for the second year in a row since we made a pause last year.
Mr President, there are 16 heads of the world’s top news agencies here today. This time many of you in your countries have TASS foreign correspondents standing by, and they are always ready to help if need be.
Undoubtedly, the major drawback of our meeting’s format today is that it is impossible to see the amazing and hospitable St Petersburg. We are twice as sorry to miss you at the meeting in the city on the Neva this year – I hope it will be an exception – since this time we have nine new participants. In the course of the conversation, I will introduce both our old friends and our new participants.
The time difference from Tokyo to New York is another problem – well, maybe not a problem but a factor at our meeting. We will definitely take it into account and give the floor to those for whom morning is approaching or has already arrived.
Briefly about the meeting format. I would like to ask you to prepare one question that is of the greatest importance for you. You will have the opportunity to ask your second or third question if we have enough time. I believe our dialogue will be just as useful and open as the seven meetings in the past.
Obviously, this year and last year have been unusual and sad for everyone. The world confronted the impact of COVID-19, people are mourning the loss of family members, friends and compatriots while their countries suffer enormous economic losses. This is a disaster of a global scale, which has changed and continues changing the world.
I would like to thank many of those present for backing the TASS initiative to hold our News Photo Award contest, which we devoted entirely to COVID-19 this year. We even called it Overcoming COVID. About 4,000 photos were submitted to the contest from 84 countries. Let me remind you that the winner was Brais Lorenzo Couto from the EFE news agency, Spain.
Mr President, TASS has reviewed the major themes, as usual, and the issue of COVID in 2020–2021 around the world is undoubtedly the key media topic which remains on the screens. So, this is the first question our colleagues entrusted me to ask you: How is Russia exiting the pandemic? What do you think of its causes and effects for the world?
Vladimir Putin: The causes of the pandemic?
Sergei Mikhailov: The causes of its emergence.
Vladimir Putin: Allow me to refrain from speaking about the causes of the pandemic because so much has already been said about it that I think it makes no sense speaking on this topic, and I am unlikely to say anything new or intriguing. But I suggest we proceed from the fact that we have faced this pandemic and we are living with it now. The world has yet to overcome these challenges and restrictions and we must continue our joint fight as an effective outcome cannot be achieved unless we work together on combating the pandemic.
I have already said today during the forum’s plenary that if some hotspots of the infection remain somewhere in the world, they might trigger its spread across the entire planet again. This concerns millions of people. It is very dangerous and we must do everything we can in order not to politicise these processes. Moreover, even economic advantages should take a back seat to issues of a humanitarian nature and the fight for people’s health and lives should be assigned primary importance. This is the key thing for us to do.
Regarding the situation in which the global economy, the entire world and Russia have found themselves, all this is also well known and I have already spoken about this today. This was the greatest economic slump since WWII, and Russia was not an exception, but thank God the decline in the Russian economy was not as big as the world economy’s.
In my view, we have used fairly properly and effectively the means allocated during the crisis and in order to deal with its consequences. We allocated about 4.5 percent of our GDP to this effect. This is a lot for Russia. And overall we have managed to accomplish two major objectives.
The first one was to preserve as many jobs as possible. The job market is recovering, this despite unemployment growing from 4.7 to almost 6 percent. Currently unemployment in Russia stands at 5.2 percent. I hope we will move down to five percent by the year’s end, and next year will be back to the pre-crisis level of 4.7 percent.
The second issue, which is only partly connected with the pandemic, concerns inflation. I also mentioned this today. Regardless, we have managed to preserve this crucial macroeconomic indicator. We had record low inflation of four percent, now it is 5.8. And we get this number by comparing year on year, on a weekly basis. But if we look not at weekly indicators but, say at least monthly ones, inflation today could be under 5.8. I hope we will be able to arrive at five percent by the end of the year.
The economic recovery is progressing steadily. GDP growth is forecasted at 2.9 percent. But I think, as do a number of experts, it may exceed three percent and will be around 3.3–3.4 percent. At any rate, there are grounds for hope. I mean the recovery rate.
Our healthcare system has performed rather effectively, and we managed to focus administrative and financial resources to mobilise the manufacturing sector. The Healthcare Ministry managed to convert, and more importantly, build and make available a substantial number of new hospital beds, special COVID beds technologically equipped to fight COVID, both in Russia’s centre and in the regions, with ventilators, oxygen and so on. These hospital beds remain on standby.
Most important, of course, is that Russia managed to develop and mass-produce the means to prevent people from getting COVID. As we know, this is the Sputnik V vaccine and three more vaccines that followed. They are effective. Sputnik V has been recognised by both Russian and international specialists as probably being the most effective. Its efficacy is 97.6 percent. I think in reality it is the safest in the world. Let me reiterate: after many millions of doses administered our health services have not recorded a single fatality resulting from the use of this vaccine, whereas other producers, regrettably, have had some tragic cases. We have not had them and I hope we will not have any ever, but some 10 percent of those vaccinated can run a small fever. However, it lasts just a few hours and that is it. These are just side effects. In addition, it provides active and effective protection. If people encounter an infection and get ill, they experience only a very mild form of the disease.
Concerning the economy, I believe that all steps have been taken – I will not list them now – directed, first of all, at supporting Russian families, primarily families with children. All these steps were much needed and effective.
The second part of the programme we pursued was supporting various sectors of the economy, both major corporations, as well as small and middle-sized enterprises. I will not repeat myself, those efforts were primarily designed to support the labour market. We set up a complete system of stimuli to preserve jobs. It too, overall, did the trick.
We continue such efforts to support our economy and Russian families. In my view, they have been very effective, and we will stick to this approach moving forward.
Concerning the world economy, the colleagues who are gathered here know as much as I do as to what the economic prospects are. Since different countries have different capabilities, according to experts, the US economy will recover this year, while the economies of other developed countries are most likely to return to pre-crisis levels next year. Except for China. China has already reached its pre-COVID levels. As regards emerging economies, this might happen much later, by the end of next year or even the year after that. These are experts’ tentative assessments.
I would very much like it if the hardships we faced last year pushed the world toward working more closely with one other, to rid the world of politically motivated restrictions, especially at a time when joint efforts are required for the sake of humanity and for the sake of the health and life of people around the world.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you very much, Mr President.
It is our seventh meeting already and certain traditions have evolved. We traditionally let representatives of the beautiful half of humanity ask the first question. Therefore, I would like to introduce our colleague from Press Trust of India, Ms Priyanka Tikoo, Deputy Editor-in-Chief and Bureau Chief. This is her first time at our meeting. We welcome you. I would certainly like to express my great concern and convey my words of support to the people of India in connection with the pandemic, which has affected India greatly. To date, 27.5 million people have contracted the coronavirus. I hope we will defeat it despite these numbers. Please, Ms Tikoo.
Deputy Editor-in-Chief and CEO of the Press Trust of India news agency Priyanka Tikoo (India) (retranslated from Russian): Thank you very much for your kind words.
Thank you very much, Mr President, for agreeing to meet with with us. My name is Priyanka Tikoo. I would like to ask about relations between Russia and India. Historically, this relationship has been very strong, but recently some problems have arisen due to the rapprochement between Beijing and Moscow, as well as due to India's participation in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue [Quad], which the Russian Foreign Minister described as the “Asian NATO.”
Could you tell us, Mr President, if you think the rapprochement between Russia and China may affect Russia’s strategic partnership with India?
And I would also like to ask, about your stance on the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue and India’s involvement in it?
Vladimir Putin: We do not participate in this initiative, so I do not think I should give any assessments on the participation of other countries in it. Each country makes its sovereign decision about with whom, how and in what capacity, and to what extent it builds its relations.
Let me state, though, that any partnership between countries should not be aimed at being friends simply to align against someone else. We need to be friends with each other so as to achieve common goals, to solve the tasks that states face.
I will repeat once again that we do not see ourselves in this configuration. However, this does not prevent us from working both with India and China. I do not see any contradictions here. Moreover, we have created conditions for India, China and Russia to be able to work within the same organisations and they are well known: we collaborate in BRICS, and the SCO, and we work together in the United Nations. Yes, I know, of course, there are certain issues related to India-China relations. But you see, there are always a plethora of issues arising between neighbours. But I know the attitude of both the Prime Minister of India and the President of the PRC, these are very responsible people and in their interactions they treat each other with great respect. And I think that they will always find a way to resolve the problems and issues they face. The main thing is that extra-regional powers should not standing their way.
As for Russia-India relations, I repeat, they are unfolding very successfully and in a trustful and traditional manner. We really appreciate this level of relations with our Indian friends. These are relations of a truly strategic nature, as they cover a whole range of areas for interaction. They include economic issues, energy, and high technologies. They also include the military-industrial complex, and here we are not only talking about the sale and purchase of Russian weapons. I have already spoken about this more than once, that we have very deep and trusting relations with India, which manifested in the fact that we and India (probably the only such partner of ours) take up joint efforts to design and produce, including on Indian territory, cutting-edge and advanced weapons systems, including missile equipment. But these are just a few; there are other areas in which we cooperate.
This is why I have no doubt that Russia-India relations will continue to develop consistently to the benefit of the peoples of India and the Russian Federation.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you very much, Mr President.
The Kyodo Tsushin news agency of Japan has been a regular fixture in our meetings, this being the seventh time they have taken part. Today, for the first time President and Editor-in-Chief of Kyodo News, Mr Toru Mizutani, is among us. He has been in charge of the agency since June 2018 and has been working there since 1979. Kyodo is the official state news agency of the XXXII Olympiad in Tokyo and the entire world is now following the travails this major competition, which has already been rescheduled once, is going through. We wish our Japanese friends and colleagues good luck and patience. I am sure that the world will duly appreciate Japan’s tremendous efforts in preparing for these Olympic Games.
Mr Toru Mizutani, it is nearly morning where you are. Thank you for your perseverance. Your question, please
Presdient and Editor-in-Chief of Kyodo News (Japan) Toru Mizutani (retranslated from Russian): Hello, my name is Mizutani of Kyodo Tsushin news agency.
First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to take part in our meeting and also to thank Sergei Mikhailov and everyone else involved in the preparation of this meeting for organising it.
The Tokyo Olympics have been mentioned now and I would like to seize this opportunity and ask how we can develop our relations and use sporting events and cooperation at them to promote our talks on the northern territories. There is much talk nowadays that amendments to the Russian Constitution have led to the situation when it may not be possible to even discuss the possibility of the transfer or the return of the four islands. How can we build a dialogue now? We always were of the opinion that concluding a peace treaty has been a problem directly connected with the return of the four islands.
Vladimir Putin: You see, Japan’s stance has changed very often since 1956 when there was talk about two islands. Afterwards, at your initiative, at Japan’s initiative, we stopped any talks about this part of the Kuril Islands. Later we resumed them at the request from the Japanese side when the discussion was about two islands. After that the Japanese position changed again and this time it was about four islands. Meanwhile, neither Russia nor the Soviet Union ever agreed to that. Therefore, yes, constitutional amendments have been adopted, and obviously we must take that into consideration. However, I do not think we must stop peace treaty negotiations.
There are many subtle issues here, and during preliminary discussions we asked our colleagues, friends and partners a number of questions including those related to ensuring security. We were very interested in how we will resolve these issues considering that your allies plan to deploy modern assault missile systems on Japan’s territory. And we always had a concern about whether those missile systems will be deployed at a distance that will threaten the Russian Federation. Regrettably, we never received an unequivocal, firm and clear answer.
However, I think we must in any case build neighbourly relations with Japan, which both the people of Japan and the people of the Russian Federation want. We are natural partners in very many areas. For a number of reasons I will not waste time listing them. Our friends in Japan are aware of them.
Therefore we are ready to continue these consultations, taking into account modern realities, but proceeding from the understanding that strategically both Russia and Japan are interested in concluding a peace treaty.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
Our old-time partners and good friends, who are progressing rapidly, are working in all thinkable and unthinkable news formats while maintaining the honourable traditions of Xinhua News Agency. This coming November, Xinhua will celebrate its 90th anniversary.
I am delighted to welcome the new Xinhua President and Editor-in-Chief, He Ping. He was appointed the agency’s president but also retained the post of editor-in-chief at a very difficult time, in October 2020.
Mr He attended our meeting in 2018 as the agency’s editor-in-chief. We congratulate him on his new appointment.
I would like to remind everyone that He Ping holds many professional awards, for example, China’s Top 100 Journalists Award. He supervised the production of a series of documentaries, The Country’s Photo Album, which has won nationwide recognition and received the 10 Most Influential Documentaries in China Award in 2017.
Mr He, your question, please.
President of Xinhua News Agency (China) He Ping (retranslated from Russian): Good afternoon, colleagues, Mr President.
I remember the year 2018 and the forum, which was held here in St Petersburg, very well. You agreed to grant an interview to me and answered my question. That time we spoke about bilateral trade between Russia and China and that our trade should grow to more than $100 billion. As you have mentioned now, our bilateral trade was more than $100 billion during the past three years.
Here is my question. This year we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Treaty of Good-Neighbourliness and Friendly Cooperation between Russia and China. This is a new historical start for us. What are your expectations, and what are the priority spheres you discussed with President Xi Jinping for the development of Russian-Chinese relations of comprehensive cooperation and strategic partnership in a new era? How can we advance them to a new development stage? How should we streamline and reform the international system of governance and create a Community with Shared Future for Mankind? What efforts can be made in this sphere?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: You mentioned the Treaty, which undoubtedly played a vital role in the development of Russian-Chinese relations. They are truly unprecedented in terms of the quality and level of interaction. But we both understand that it is not just about the Treaty, although it really is a very important thing, an important document, and an important milestone. The point is that Russia and China have many overlapping interests. This is what underlies the development of our interaction.
In this regard, one of the key fields of cooperation is the one you already mentioned at the start, and that is economic cooperation. Quite so, several years ago now, President Xi Jinping and I worked out a plan to reach the $100 billion mark in our mutual trade. Now I should tell you (you know about this) that we did actually reach this milestone, and more than this, even despite the challenges of the pandemic in 2020, we kept to that level. Despite the slight decrease, it amounted to 104 billion. And I think that over a period of the next few years, as we agreed, as we wanted, we can reach 200 billion even by 2024, despite that slight decline. We have also discussed this with President Xi Jinping. The pace we have gained and the growth rate we have achieved in the first quarter of this year also confirm this.
It is of upmost importance that we cooperate across a wide variety of areas. We are following global trends and we are increasingly focusing on the most important fields of high-tech. I have repeatedly mentioned that we continue to work together in aircraft manufacturing, we are more and more expanding our cooperation in space, including the joint lunar programme; there are very interesting prospects here.
Quite recently, you are aware, President Xi Jinping and I broke ground for four new nuclear reactors in China. This is very important high-tech collaboration.
Work continues in other segments in the energy industry too. On the other hand, I believe our cooperation in nature conservation and in the humanitarian field is no less important. From year to year, we hold a variety of forums, all kinds of cross year projects. This brings people ever closer together. All this requires good support in terms of infrastructure, so we are developing it as well. Quite recently, you know we have opened a bridge in one of the most important regions of the Russian-Chinese border.
Russia and China are jointly working on major projects that have an international dimension. As you are aware, China is promoting the New Silk Road idea, including in the economy. This is quite consistent with what we are doing within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
We have many overlapping interests and fields of activity. I simply do not doubt for a second that we will continue to be as active as possible, keeping in mind both Russia’s and China’s interest in maintaining collaboration on the international arena, and this interaction is undoubtedly one of the most important factors of stability in international affairs.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
Thank you, Mr He.
I am happy to introduce the first-time participant in this kind of meetings, Mr Cho Sung-boo, President and CEO of Yonhap News Agency, South Korea. He took the lead at the biggest South Korean news agency in 2018 and in 2019, his colleagues elected him president of the powerful Organisation of Asia-Pacific News Agencies.
It is now early morning in Seoul. Please go ahead, Mr Cho. Thank you for staying up for us.
President and CEO of Yonhap News Agency (South Korea) Cho Sung-boo (retranslated from Russian): Hello, everybody. My name is Cho Sung-boo and I represent Yonhap News Agency.
First of all, I would like to thank Mr President and Mr Mikhailov for the opportunity to participate in this meeting.
In 2017, Russia and China presented a joint plan of action, a roadmap on North Korea's nuclear issue, and in 2019, in pursuance of this roadmap, Russia presented a joint plan and asked everybody to support and fulfil this plan. I would like to ask about Russia’s stance on the North Korean nuclear issue and the prospects for resolving it.
Last year, Russia and South Korea celebrated the 30th anniversary of their diplomatic relations. I know that Mr President even wanted to visit South Korea but the COVID-19 pandemic prevented him from doing that. The pandemic is subsiding. Does Mr President have any plans to visit my country this year?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much for your questions.
First of all, I would like to say that the relationship between Russia and South Korea is developing well in a great number of areas. We are satisfied with our economic cooperation with South Korea. Indeed, the pandemic caused a certain decline in trade but already in the first quarter of this year, we noted that trade is recovering.
The question that you have formulated is, of course, extremely important and sensitive not only for the Republic of Korea, but also for the entire region and one can also say for the whole world. The North Korean nuclear programme is, naturally, the focus of your attention as well as ours.
I have formulated Russia’s attitude on this subject on many occasions. We are point-blank against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction all over the world. Everybody, including our friends in North Korea, are well aware of this. Still, I would like to emphasise that a solution to this problem should not be based on “strangling” North Korea or any further sanctions against it, but rather on the creation of conditions, which would guarantee the security of the North Koreans. And in this case, acting from such positions, using tact, patience and desire to solve this matter, I think we could make some progress.
By the way, over a period of the past years, when there was at least an attempt to follow along this path, we could also see some positive trends, including a favourable response from the North Korean leadership. However, later on North Korean partners, above all the US partners, drifted away from their earlier obligations, which brought about another spiral of tension.
I would like to believe that all of us, including Russia, will find an optimal way of solving the North Korean problem. However one of them, since we all live in one region and Russia in this context is a regional country: we have a common border with the DPRK, we also have such an instrument as trilateral programmes, primarily in the field of the economy, and we have not forgotten them. Unfortunately, they are not being implemented but we are ready to work together to do this and it seems to me that it could create good conditions for solving issues in the political sphere.
Thank you.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
The Reuters agency has been repeatedly involved in our meeting. I am happy to be able to introduce you to Reuters President Michael Friedenberg for the first time. He came to head the agency in December 2018 and immediately started planning his visit to Moscow and St Petersburg. Unfortunately, these plans were adjusted because of the coronavirus pandemic. Michael, I am confident that you will visit St Petersburg soon.
It is not necessary to say much about the Reuters news agency. Suffice it to recall that the agency, the world’s largest multimedia news provider, will mark its 170th anniversary in October 2021.
Michael, your question, please.
Reuters President Michael Friedenberg (retranslated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the time. Congratulations on holding this magnificent forum.
You will soon hold talks with President Biden, on June 16, and it appears that you disagree on some political measures. But your opinions coincide in some areas, including the environment and strategic stability. What would you like to achieve during your summit with President Biden?
Vladimir Putin: You know, I am not expecting any breakthroughs following this meeting. But I believe that (you are absolutely right) that, despite the disagreements, which were not created by the Russian side, we, nevertheless, have coinciding interests.
You have now mentioned some of the subjects that would be of interest to the United States and the Russian Federation. This includes the solution of environmental problems, strategic stability and joint work to resolve a number of regional crises. All this is highly important because this is linked with our countries’ security matters, considering intra-regional crises, such as in the Middle East. What do these unresolved crises lead to? They cause an upsurge in terrorism, and this is extremely dangerous for everyone, including the United States, Russia, Europe and other regions. These unresolved matters are the cause, and terrorism is the direct consequence of what is happening in these regions.
Strategic stability is extremely important. We don’t want to scare anyone with our new weapons systems. Yes, we are developing them, and we have achieved certain results and successes here. But all leading countries and leading military powers are doing this, and we are just one step ahead. We realise that other high-tech countries, such as the United States and other states, will achieve similar results sooner or later. Therefore I believe that it is better to reach agreement in advance on how we will live together in a changing world. We are ready for this.
I assume that President Biden is a very experienced politician who has been dealing with politics all his life, he is well-versed in many of the problems I have mentioned because he was time and again involved in assessing similar matters, in different capacities. This is why I hope that our meeting will be constructive.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Michael. Thank you, Mr President.
One of the most influential media alliances in the world is the European Alliance of News Agencies, EANA, which turns 65 this year. Our next speaker is serving his second term as President of EANA, and we congratulate him on his re-election. This is Peter Kropsch, President and CEO of the German agency DPA, which he has headed since 2017. In 1996, Mr Kropsch joined the Austrian agency APA and later headed it. In 2015, he was recognised as the best media manager and became head of DPA in Germany. He is joining us for the fourth time, Mr President; he is very active in meetings, and very active in sports. He is your colleague in judo and has achieved considerable results: a first-degree black belt, so let us congratulate him on this too, Mr President.
Go ahead, Peter, your question please.
Peter Kropsch, President, CEO of Deutsche Presse-Agentur (Germany) (retranslated from Russian): Thank you, Sergei.
Mr President,
I am delighted to see you all tonight, and I am glad that you are all well. Unfortunately, I did not have a chance to see many of you all this time.
There is a lot of talk about Russia’s relations with other countries. I would like to ask you about relations between Russia and Germany, and how they are faring. These relations are going through hard times. There have been several situations that worsened our relations, and there is also the disinformation campaign. There is the high-profile case of Alexei Navalny, his health getting worse, his stay in Germany, and his arrest after he returned from Germany. The journalistic community notes that independent journalists also suffer in Russia, and it is very difficult for them to work in Russia being independent – I would even say, impossible.
Furthermore, the attitude towards NGOs has soured, and some of them have been declared foreign agents. I would like to know if this will be discussed at subsequent bilateral meetings. All these factors could be negatively affecting relations between Russia and Germany. Do you think there will be an improvement in our bilateral relations? What do you expect from the new German government to be formed next autumn after the elections we are all waiting for? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: It is not surprising that we have different views on developments in our countries and the world.
You mentioned that members of the opposition are being persecuted in one way or another by the state. Now look, I talked about this at a session in our forum. Let’s not scatter to different countries.
Take a look at the sad events in the United States where people refused to accept the election results and stormed the Congress. As a result, 450 people were detained and are facing serious charges, including conspiracy to seize power, and could spend between 15 to 25 years in prison. Immediately after the attack, 70 people were detained, and 31 of them are still under arrest. Have you asked on what grounds? Why are you only interested in our non-systemic opposition? There are many similar opposition groups in the European countries as well. They are quickly dispersed through the effective efforts of the security services.
I do not think Russia is an exception in this sense. Our opposition, including non-systemic opposition, operates openly. The main requirement is that everyone who is involved, or say, engaged in politics, act within the framework of current legislation. This is the only requirement for everyone.
We have 35 parties, 32 of which are preparing to take part in elections at various levels. Why only 32? Because some of them are being reformed. There are four parties in our parliament and three of them are opposition parties.
Views on our political system can differ. It develops in step with the general development of Russian society. Just leave us to determine how to organise this part of our life. That’s the first thing.
Second, regarding foreign agents. Was the foreign agent law invented in Russia? No, it was invented in the United States many years ago, back in the 20th century. There is nothing new in our actions, and our foreign agent law is much more liberal – just take a look at the texts of these laws and you will see that it is much more liberal than the US law. Why don’t you criticise the US law then?
Our law is aimed exclusively at restricting interference in our internal affairs, just as many other countries do, including in Europe, and the United States is doing the same. We will continue doing this. We will restrict and try to reduce interference in our internal affairs to a minimum. There is nothing unusual in this, and we do not see it as something to be ashamed of.
Now, journalism and journalists’ work, you know, we have so many news channels and internet channels here in Russia, so many different opinions, including harsh criticism by the media, views, topics and judgement of the activities of the Russian authorities and my own actions as well. I think that this does not exist in your countries, there is no such strong criticism. Journalists keep working and nothing happens to them. If you knew the wording and the tone of publications, I think you would see how freely people discuss things, including politics.
But what happens to our journalists in certain foreign countries raises questions. Russian journalists are pressured and persecuted; Russian channels get shut down and their operation gets restricted using administrative and financial tools. Essentially, our channels are being strangled to death. Financial institutions are prohibited from working with them. It is becoming difficult for Russian media outlets to hire local workers or to lease offices, and so on.
We really wish we could operate on equal terms. I would like to point out the following. For example, you are the head of a very powerful holding, as I understand it. Here in Russia, we basically have only one media outlet that targets a foreign audience. It is Russia Today, and it has been vilified and badmouthed so much; its journalists have been called all kinds of names. Please take note of this aspect of our cooperation. I really hope that we will cooperate as equals in this area.
As for cooperation with the future government of Germany, I would like to say that Germany is one of our priority partners in the economy; on a global scale, it is one of our largest trade and economic partners, our largest partner in Europe and one of the biggest in the world after China. We have a large number of friends in Germany and we have a strong interest in developing our trade and economic links. Thousands of German companies operate in Russia, with our mutual investment amounting to $29 billion. These are significant resources, and our business partners invest not in financial operations but in the real economy and real production. We very much appreciate this and try to provide our help and support, which we intend to continue.
I personally meet with representatives of German businesses on a regular basis. We listen carefully to their feedback concerning our cooperation, respond to them and plan our work accordingly.
In the political sphere, I really hope that, considering the special nature of our relations and our people’s particular interest in continuing cooperation, Germany’s future leadership will build its political relationships with Russia accordingly. We are ready to fully cooperate to overcome all the difficulties you mentioned.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
I welcome Mr Gary Pruitt, President and CEO of The Associated Press, the largest international news and information agency. We recently congratulated The Associated Press on its 175th anniversary. Mr Pruitt has headed the AP since 2012, and the agency has won the prestigious Pulitzer Prize four times during those nine years. We congratulate The Associated Press on this achievement.
Gary, please go ahead with your question.
President and CEO of The Associated Press (US) Gary Pruitt (retranslated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity to see you. Thank you, Sergei, and TASS for organising this event. We understand that this event can only be held remotely due to travel restrictions, but I really miss the white nights in St Petersburg.
Mr President, you will be meeting with President Biden in Geneva in mid-June. Today, relations between our countries are at a very low level. What do our countries need to do to increase the level of trust in order to resume cooperation? What does Russia need to do for this? What does the United States need to do?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: The main thing that needs to be done is to treat each other with respect and take into account each other’s interests in the broadest sense of the word. But this is not a general phrase, it is a meaningful matter. President Biden belongs, in my opinion, to the most experienced class of international politicians, as I mentioned earlier, because in different capacities and at various times over the course of many years, he has personally participated in the discussion and preparation of the decisions on all issues that matter today for the entire world and bilateral relations.
But it was not us who drove Russia-US relations into the state they’re in today. We didn’t do this. After all, we have never taken a single first step in matters that are detrimental to Russia-US relations. I will not list all of them now because I think that in the run-up to our meeting it is better not to go into the things that have brought destruction in Russia-US relations. But there are enough of these steps.
Did we impose sanctions on the United States? No, it was the United States that imposed sanctions on us and continues to impose them for every reason or for no reason at all, just because we exist. But they will have to live with this, because Russia was, is and will be here. Just as there is and will be the United States, which plays a very important role in the world. I would very much like it to play a stabilising role. But in this context, in my opinion, Russia-US relations are also important. To reiterate, I would very much like our meeting to be held in a constructive manner.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Gary.
Thank you, Mr President.
I would like to welcome Chairman and CEO of one of the world’s biggest news agencies, Agence France-Presse, Mr Fabrice Fries. He was elected the AFP Chairman and CEO in April 2018. Mr Fries started his career at the French Court of Audit, the secretariat of the European Commission President Jacques Delors, and held executive posts in media, IT and communications companies. It is the fifth time AFP has participated in a meeting with you, Mr President. It is also the second time we have welcomed Mr Fries. Mr Fries, your question, please.
Agence France-Presse Chairman and CEO Fabrice Fries (retranslated from Russian): Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
I will be brief. Do you personally approve of Alexander Lukashenko’s actions, specifically, that he ordered a plane to turn around and land in Minsk where an opposition activist was detained?
Vladimir Putin: I do not think I have the right to evaluate the actions of other leaders and heads of state. If I did this, my relationships with my colleagues would be ruined in an instant.
I think that there should be certain ethics when it comes to relationships at this level. This is the first thing.
Second, as President Lukashenko explained to me, he did not order the plane to land. There was a bomb alert and, as far as I remember, the captain, who could have landed in Vilnius, since the plane was closer to Vilnius than to Minsk, decided to land in Minsk. Nobody forced him to land – at least this is President Lukashenko’s account of the events. That is it. How am I supposed to evaluate the actions of the Belarusian President here? I think it would be inappropriate on my part. But if you are not familiar with what President Lukashenko told me about that incident, I do not think it is a secret and I am ready to share this information with you – which I have actually just done.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
The next question goes to Spain, which is as beautiful as our guest. I am delighted to introduce another new colleague of ours who is new to this meeting, Gabriela Canas. President of Spain’s leading news agency, EFE. A journalist and a writer, Ms Canas assumed leadership of EFE at the start of the pandemic in May 2020. She is the first woman in the history of that agency to head it. Her novel Torres de Fuego (Towers on Fire) was published in 2011. This is her first time at our meeting.
EFE is Spain’s main news agency founded in 1939, at the end of the 1936–1939 Civil War. It is the leading Spanish-language media outlet in Spain, Latin America and North America. By the way, the state is the main shareholder in EFE.
Madam Canas, please go ahead.
President of EFE Agency (Spain) Gabriela Canas (retranslated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President, for organising this event, which is so interesting for us.
I would like to ask you about the vaccine. Russia has supplied vaccines to many countries, and a great number of vaccines have come to Latin America. Argentina has announced the production of this vaccine in its own production facilities. What do you think about the accusation from the West that vaccines can be used as a tool in a geopolitical struggle?
I would also like to ask you about Russia-Spain relations. Russian tourists enjoy coming to Spain and vice versa. I would like to ask you about opening the borders and improving our relations.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: As for the vaccine and its use as some kind of a geopolitical weapon, you said that the West is accusing us. I do not think the West is accusing Russia of that. First, this is complete nonsense and sheer delusion, I cannot express it otherwise.
Second, you know, there are different assessments of what is happening regarding our vaccines. I think this version is promoted by people who are far from politics in reality, even though our media and public opinion believe that accusations against Russia are created allegedly for political reasons.
I think that such accusations, false accusations, are created for the purposes of competition. The vaccine market is estimated at about $100 billion a year, probably even more. And I will tell you why this is being done. This is being done because, among other things, the delays in registering the Russian vaccine in Europe are due to the commercial interests of those who are doing so, since they are thus gaining time for the competitors of Russian producers of the vaccine to take over the European market, since long-term contracts are being concluded for the supply of vaccines. When the relevant European agency issues a permit to use the Russian vaccine in Europe, it will become clear that the market is already 100 percent full, and long-term contracts have already been concluded. That’s it; the ship will have sailed for our companies.
However, this is not the point, because, as I have already said, we are selling our vaccines to 66 countries and this market is enough for us. But I have no doubt that this is being done for commercial reasons.
Of course, some Russophobes have taken up this topic. We are guided not by commercial gain but by humanitarian considerations above all. I have already said that this is recognised by international experts: our vaccine is effective, with 97.6 percent efficacy. I think it is the safest. And this gives us every reason to say that we have every right to offer it, and whether to take it or not is our partners’ business. In Europe, as you know, some small and medium-sized countries have already made such a decision, and are using it and thank us for this opportunity.
We are the only country in the world that is ready to pass on technology. We are doing so and starting production at foreign facilities. We are ready to do this in European countries as well; we can see no obstacles here. In fact, this is just another myth about the use of the vaccine. But, you know, if there is any political aspect to it, it concerns only those who are not ready to admit that Russia is not a gas station. Russia is a country with a high level of science and education. Maybe some do not like this, I repeat, for Russophobic reasons. But I think that this will also pass, considering Russia’s intent to build relations with all our partners based on mutual benefit.
Speaking about mutual travel, yes, unfortunately the pandemic is not yet over. There are restrictions in European countries, and there are certain restrictions here, too. The incidence rate has grown a little in Russia lately. There is nothing unusual here; we are in full control. Vaccination is underway.
Before this, we had not produced vaccines at such a large volume, and primarily only for Russia. I think that in July we will reach a production level of 20 million per month. We have enough for domestic consumption now, and we are ready to vaccinate the entire adult population, but we are doing this voluntarily. I think that in September 60 percent of the entire population of the Russian Federation will have immunity, counting those who unfortunately fell ill, including mildly, plus vaccinations. We will reach an immunisation level of 60 percent in September. After that, it will be possible to talk about wider access to our territory, and about Russian tourists who will also be able to travel more freely to other countries, including European ones. But, by the way, it would be nice if European regulators recognised that people vaccinated with our vaccines are no different from those vaccinated with Moderna, Pfizer or AstraZeneca.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Ms Canas.
Thank you, Mr President.
Mr President, this is the sixth time that Clive Marshall, Chief Executive at what has been Press Association Group until recently, has attended a meeting with you. They went through a rebranding, changing the name to PA Media Group, but it remains a major information agency in the UK. Over the years I have described almost everything I knew about Mr Marshall. The only thing I might have failed to mention is that he is an inveterate motorcyclist and likes hiking through Scotland’s mountains. Now I am making up for this oversight. In addition, since 2016 Clive has been President of the News Agencies World Council, which includes most of the world’s news agencies as its members, and has proved to be very effective.
Please, Mr Marshall, your question.
Chief Executive at PA Media Group, the United Kingdom, Clive Marshall (retranslated from Russian): Thank you very much, Sergei.
Good day, Mr President,
The new chief of MI6 said recently that Russia was an example of a declining power. More than that, they constantly talk about the irresponsible behaviour of the Russian Federation. Do you think there is truth in this?
I also want to ask you about the climate change summit in Glasgow scheduled for later this year. Do you plan to attend?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: You said these assessments had been given by the new head of MI6, but he is new, in the sense that he is the newly appointed chief. I believe that as he gains experience he will revisit his assessments. This is the first thing.
Next, if Russia is a declining power, why should one worry? Calm down, stop bothering about it and do not make Russian-British relations worse. If you do not interfere, the trend that has gained momentum is likely to persist. The United Kingdom is one of few countries in Europe, and even the world, where economic relations continue to be on the up side. Even last year – the pandemic year, when our trade with many countries slumped, trade with the UK grew by 54 percent. This is record high. So, if nobody interferes, everything will be good and mutual trade might help Russia turn from a withering country into a prosperous one. We strongly hope that Russian-British relations will contribute to this process.
As for the environmental agenda, we are giving it much attention. Hopefully, cooperation in this area will also be included on the agenda of our relations with the UK and we can offer something to each other in this respect, I mean cooperation in industrial production and science. The most important thing is that we have respect for each other, trust each other and hope that nothing occurs in the UK that would allow us to come up with assessments like those given by the new head of your country’s intelligence service with respect to Russia.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
Turkey. Yusuf Ozhan, deputy director- general and editor-in-chief of the Turkish Anadolu Agency is with us for the first time. His journalism career began at Turkey’s The Daily Star, where he worked as a foreign policy editor and specialised in Turkish-American relations, US foreign policy, and the Syrian civil war. His articles have been published in a variety of world publications.
Mr Ozhan took office as Anadolu editor-in-chief and deputy director-general in April 2021, just recently. As a reminder, Anadolu is the largest news agency in Turkey, and was founded by Kemal Ataturk in 1920.
Please, Mr Ozhan, your question.
Yusuf Ozhan, Deputy Director-General, Editor-in-Chief of Anadolu Agency (Turkey) (retranslated from Russian): Thank you very much, Mr President.
I thank you for the opportunity to ask a question, and I would like to thank TASS for organising this meeting.
Mr President, as you know, we have seen a significant escalation of violence against the civilian population in Palestine in the past month. We are also aware that Russia plays a unique role in the Middle East, considering the sizeable Islamic population in Russia and its close ties with Israel. I would like to ask you how Russia can contribute to the peaceful and expeditious resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Russia has indeed been involved in these processes for a long time, for many decades. We have very good relations with Israel; many people from the former Soviet Union live there. It is a significant factor in Israeli-Russian relations. However, we also have traditionally friendly relations with the Arab world and especially with the Palestinian people. Here is what I would like to say in this regard, and what I would like to highlight.
We welcome the normalisation of relations between different states of the region, including between Arab countries and Israel. When ties between states are restored, it always benefits the peoples of these states. At the same time, and we are now clearly seeing this, it is hardly possible to achieve a stable peace and a stable situation in the region without a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Here, we need to restore multilateral formats of cooperation and multilateral formats for discussing the problems at hand. There are issues that require special attention from the international community. Of course, overcoming inter-Palestinian differences is among the essential elements.
I think that this entire range (I am not talking now about Israel’s settlement policy etc., but many questions accumulated in that area), the entire range of issues, of course, needs to be studied very carefully. And Palestinian settlement must not be pushed back to the periphery of international politics given the pressing nature of this issue and the importance of this problem not only for the Arab world but, I think, the entire world as well.
We very much hope that the issues of fundamental importance, namely, the creation of two states, including the Palestinian state, will be resolved on the basis of mutual interests of the peoples living in this region, and taking into account the future. It is very important to look into the future, it is very important not to be guided by fleeting political opportunistic considerations, but to create conditions for a lasting long-term settlement.
But, I repeat, coming up with recipes for resolving this long-standing problem is hardly possible in a short conversation that we are now having, especially a virtual one. Russia is willing to work actively with all the participants in this process and do its fair share in settling the Palestinian-Israeli conflict.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
It is now Vienna’s turn, and I am happy to present our Austrian colleague, President and CEO of APA Dr Clemens Pig.
Mr Pig, as well as APA, is taking part in our meeting for the first time. Back in 2014, Mr Pig was appointed managing director of the APA Group, and in 2016 he became President and CEO. Mr Pig is working on an interesting subject: political communications amid the media’s digital transformation. He has won a lot of prizes and titles. In 2018, the Austrian Journalist magazine named him Media Manager of the Year, and this is the main trade magazine in Austria. In 2021, he was named Communicator of the Year by the Extra 1 magazine. This September APA marks its 75th anniversary, and of course, we congratulate them.
Please, Mr Pig, your question. It is very good that you have joined us.
President and CEO of the Austrian Press Agency (Austria) Clemens Pig (retranslated from Russian): Thank you very much.
Let me also thank you for congratulating us on the agency’s 75th anniversary.
Mr President, thank you very much for inviting me to this meeting. Thank you for the opportunity to exchange opinions and ask questions.
How do you assess relations between Russia and Austria? On the one hand, it looks like Russia’s relations with some Eastern and Central European countries like Germany, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and Poland have deteriorated after reports of hacker attacks and other similar problems. In addition, recently, on May 27, an Austrian Airlines flight from Vienna to Moscow was cancelled, and this became a serious problem because there is no other direct way to get to Moscow from Austria. Mr President, do you think you could use your influence on Belarus to ensure freedom of movement and freedom of information?
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: We have very good relations with Austria. We value them very much and consider Austria to be a reliable partner in Europe; we implement major important projects together, including Nord Stream 2, as I mentioned earlier. Yes, indeed, life is complex and diverse, and there are issues with some European countries that require special attention and efforts at various levels for these relations to improve.
As for what happened to the Austrian Airlines flight, I honestly don’t know; this is the first time I’ve heard about it. I would guess that this is likely due to pandemic restrictions. I just don’t know anything about it. If so, if it is connected with the pandemic, it will pass, the situation will improve in our countries, and flights will be resumed.
As to freedom of movement, I feel that you are bringing me back to the issue of the plane landing in Minsk. I have already answered this question in general. To be honest, I didn’t want to talk about it, but you have forced me to do so. And I would like to strike the ball back to you: what do you think about President of Bolivia Evo Morales’ plane being forced to land in Vienna, escorting him off the plane and searching the presidential aircraft? So, the same thing happened in Vienna; in Vienna they grounded the head of state’s airplane. Sorry, I want to present myself as a hospitable host, but you are just pushing me into these questions. If you can ground the plane of the president of an independent country in Vienna, why can’t they land a plane in Minsk, especially if there was a signal that a bomb had been planted on board?
We just need to measure similar situations with the same yardstick, and not only in this case, but in general. We need to get rid of double standards; you can’t always say that one person can do this, and another cannot. A well-known proverb from the ancient world is well known to us: what is permissible for one person may not be permissible for another. May not be permissible for a bull. What’s that?
Let’s work out common approaches and come up with common assessments. Using tear gas, rubber bullets and water cannons to disperse demonstrations in Europe, and knocking out eyes with rubber bullets, is okay, but when there is an arrest in Belarus, maybe, done in a harsh manner, it is unacceptable. Why? Because European countries are democratic and they can do this in Europe. Let’s then come up with acceptable ways of handling street protests and define what exactly is unacceptable. Let’s develop common criteria and approaches, at least develop common definitions that will be understood by everyone the same way. Then it will be easier for us to give assessments to the events that are taking place in various regions around the world, including Europe.
I will not ask you anything about the President of Bolivia’s aircraft being forced down, but if you choose to comment on it, I think everyone would be interested to hear. Your colleague, who asked me a question like that in relation to my assessment of President Lukashenko’s actions, would be interested as well.
Sergei Mikhailov: Dr Pig, do you have a comment?
Clemens Pig: Thank you very much for your answer, Mr President.
Frankly, in my question, I did not intend to touch on the issue of this plane landing nor push you to comment on it. I wanted to ask if your influence could be used.
Vladimir Putin: Used for what?
Clemens Pig: Just take advantage of your reputation to send a signal to everyone and to emphasise that freedom of movement, freedom of information are a great benefit that needs to be protected.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course, I fully agree with this. You know, we have a fairly open stance on almost all issues that are sensitive to us all. We are not hiding anything behind our back. We are open to an absolutely candid exchange of information, and we have nothing, strictly speaking, to hide. And we believe that this is the right approach. I have already covered the difficulties that our journalists encounter when working in some European countries or in the United States. They find it difficult to do their job, do you understand? Let’s approach this kind of work with the same yardstick. This also applies to freedom of movement, of course, I agree with you. But I assure you that you are overestimating my influence. I have expressed my position, and we will promote it. I will only be too happy if we work on this together.
Thank you very much.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Dr Pig.
Mr President, thank you.
Ms Rosalind Mathieson, Executive Editor at Bloomberg, is taking part in our meeting for the third time. She is a reputed journalist and political expert who came to Bloomberg in 2013 and was appointed executive editor in 2018. I mentioned during our previous meetings that she is keen on Thai boxing, and I hope that Ms Mathieson’s successes in this sport are as impressive as in her job.
Rosalind, please, your question.
Bloomberg News (US) Executive Editor for International Government Rosalind Mathieson (retranslated from Russian): Thank you.
Good evening and good morning to my colleagues in Asia.
Thank you for organising this event. Thank you, President Putin, for finding time to answer our questions. I believe that all our readers would be interested in learning your opinion. I would just like to know if you are willing to talk about this and if you are willing to talk publicly. I have a question about the United States.
Russia wants to de-dollarise the economy, to de-dollarise its stability fund because of Western sanctions. Would you say that the dollar is a weapon used against Russia? And in this connection, if you are dependent on the dollar, you will be able to get rid of it completely. What will you do to get rid of dependence on the dollar?
In addition, we have a new administration in the US, and a change of administration is important. As my colleague has already said, there will be a new government in Germany, too. You have known Angela Merkel for a long time, for many years; you have met many times, talked many times, and worked together. Yes, you had a lot of disagreements, but nevertheless you always kept talking. And when she is gone, will you miss her?
Vladimir Putin: Definitely.
Rosalind Mathieson: What exactly will you miss in the person who will come after her?
Vladimir Putin: I do not know who will come after her. It is true that Angela and I have a businesslike relationship, and I appreciate her a lot. She is a very experienced politician and a straight-forward but reliable person. If we have agreed on something, then I see – which is frankly surprising to me, but it is true – that she is consistent and knows how to defend her position. We feel it too; we feel it in our joint affairs. Some things we may like, some things we may not, but she is a reliable, stable partner.
I would like stability and reliability to remain in the activities of the German government to come, too, but at the same time, we will try to reduce the number of disagreements you have mentioned as much as possible.
Let me say this once again: Germany is an important partner for Russia, both in Europe and in the world, and we very much hope that the situation will consistently improve.
As for the dollar, I have already said that we are not trying to get rid of the dollar. If you heard something I said about the dollar and took it that we wanted to get rid of it as a reserve currency or as a universal means of payment, this is not true. I meant something else. What I was saying is that the United States is using the dollar, its national currency, to impose a variety of sanctions.
Just to give you a sense of what it is all about. It’s not that we do not like the dollar because the United States is bad and it imposes sanctions on us, which forces us to get rid of it; of course not. The question has a practical dimension. Let’s assume we are unable to make payments in dollars with our partners in defence cooperation. You see? We have a problem. What should we do? We switch to paying in national currencies or currencies of other countries. Our US partners force us to do this. We are not moving away from the dollar purposefully, we are compelled to do so. When we do this, a system of financial relations with our partners is formed outside dollar transactions.
But why are the US political authorities doing this? They are cutting off the branch they are sitting on and will crash to the ground in the end. Everyone in the world can see this, you know? Everyone can see it, hence the question about the reliability of dollar transactions. This is leading to the decline of gold and foreign exchange reserves in dollars, and not just in our country, but almost all over the world, including US allies. The volume of settlements in dollars is on the decline.
I am afraid I might get my numbers wrong, but look at the statistics provided by international institutions. Look at them. These are not our statistics, they are statistics compiled by international financial institutions. You will see that the volume of dollar transactions is decreasing every year, and gold and foreign exchange reserves in dollars are also going down, and not just in our country. Well, even more so with us. There are increasingly more sanctions, and we hear more threats from Congress and other places.
All of that is being done as part of some internal political processes in the United States. The people who are doing this seem to operate on the premise that the economic power of the United States, its military and political power is so strong that it does not scare them – “we will get through this,” is what they are thinking.
You know what the problem is? I will tell you as a citizen of the former Soviet Union. What is the problem with an empire? They think they are so mighty they can afford minor faults and mistakes. It is okay, we will buy these people and scare other people; we will reach an agreement with still others, give beads to those and threaten others with our warships – problem solved. But problems are piling up, and there comes a time when it is no longer possible to cope with them all. And the United States is firmly and steadily following in the footsteps of the Soviet Union.
I will say it again: this is not our initiative. Some of our companies, for example, in the oil sector, are reluctant to leave the dollar, mindful of the volatility of national currencies. But if the United States continues to force them into this, eventually, they will find a way to de-dollarise their settlements and convert to national currencies or currencies of third countries. They will just find a solution, end of story. And this will be a severe blow to the dollar as the global reserve currency.
Multiple reserve currencies and units of account are a good thing for the global economy if we want to achieve a more stable situation in international finance and the global economy in general.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
At this year’s St Petersburg International Economic Forum, Qatar became the guest of honor. I welcome the Qatar News Agency, and with special care, I introduce Director-General of the Qatar News Agency Mr Youssef Ibrahim Al-Malki.
Welcome! Mr Al-Malki is at our meeting for the first time. He took over as CEO of the Qatar News Agency in 2017 with an impressive track record and extensive experience in the media. Please, your question, Mr Al-Malki.
Director-General of the Qatar News Agency (Qatar) Youssef Ibrahim Al-Malki (retranslated from Russian):
Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to participate in this meeting. Thank you for the excellent organisation of the forum.
I would like to ask you about relations between Russia and Qatar, which in recent years have reached a new level, and mutual trade as well as investments amount to billions of dollars. What do you think of the level of the current Russian-Qatari relations and their prospects?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thanks to our joint efforts, including the personal attention of the Emir of Qatar to the development of Russian-Qatari relations, our cooperation has indeed reached a new level. It has become trustworthy and is already acquiring an all-encompassing character. This applies to the economy, to our interaction in the political sphere and to culture and humanitarian issues.
As regards economic interaction, it is sufficient to recall our cooperation through sovereign wealth funds, where a platform worth $2 billion has been created, if I’m not mistaken, and this investment work is making good progress. As far as I know, our Qatari friends are satisfied with the progress in this area.
As for the humanitarian areas, then, of course, Qatar’s preparation for the FIFA World Cup is coming to the fore. We talked with the Emir; I understand the difficulties that Qatar is facing, I mean both regional problems and the pandemic, and there are other issues that require special consideration. For our part, we will do our best to support our friends in Qatar and help them prepare for this important global event. We understand how difficult it is. We know the problems that Qatar is facing in this regard; they are both economic and of any other nature. There are many issues that require extra attention.
We will work closely with you and look for other areas of activities and the development of our relations. I am confident that we will find them and will work effectively and move forward.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you, Mr President.
In conclusion, it is time I introduced one of those who is taking part in our meeting for the first time, although he represents Italy’s leading news agency, which is a regular participant in all our forum meetings: Stefano De Alessandri, CEO and Managing Director at ANSA.
Mr Alessandri was appointed CEO and Managing Director at ANSA in September 2018. He is fond of music and is very good on the bass guitar.
ANSA is Italy’s leading news agency, as you know well. It was founded on January 13, 1945 by three members of the main political forces in the Italian Resistance.
On June 2, Italy marked Republic Day, 75 years since this national holiday was declared. Please, accept our congratulations.
Mr Alessandri, your question, please.
CEO and Managing Director at ANSA (Italy), Stefano De Alessandri (retranslated from Russian): Thank you, Sergei, for introducing me and thank you for the invitation.
Mr President, thank you for this unique opportunity and for sparing the time to answer our questions.
Here is my question. Despite the pandemic, Russia and Italy continue to maintain sustained economic relations, and Italy is once again Russia’s fifth major trade partner. Currently, 600 Italian companies are operating in Russia, one of which is a partner of this economic forum. However, if we compare Italy with Germany or France, our relations are still waiting to be taken full advantage of, particularly given the potential of the Russian market and Italian producers. What can we do to bring more Italian companies to Russia to do business here? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: This should be a question for us: what can and should we do to see more Italian companies operate in our country? According to my information, the number of Italian companies operating in Russia is not 600 – apparently, it is about 500. Last year, there was a slight decline in trade with Italy, much like with the overwhelming majority of European countries.
Here is what I would I like to note. After all, we have long-standing relations with our Italian friends – just think back to the automobile plant in Togliatti. There are many interesting areas of cooperation related to high-tech industries and energy. Eni has been operating in our country for a long time now and has a strong market presence. It is a reliable partner. We cooperate in transport, the environment and logistics. You know, there are very many areas of interaction, but one has always occupied a prominent place in Russian-Italian relations – cultural ties and tourism.
Areas of interaction abound, and here is what I would like to note: that we have a good public background for expanding relations with Italy. Relations between our people are very good. We have always had great interest in Italian culture, and it has always been widely represented in Russia. It constitutes a very good basis for developing relations in politics and the economy. I very much hope that things will turn out that way because we have a solid foundation.
I have a feeling that we have a national consensus regarding the development of Russian-Italian relations. But I would very much like the status of our relations not only to be preserved, but to move forward. There is every chance for this, and we will work to make it happen and will do our best to provide our Italian partners and friends with a good, effective and economically lucrative work in Russia.
Sergei Mikhailov: Thank you very much, Mr President. I think everyone will join me in extending thanks to you, once again, for keeping this tradition, despite your challenging schedule. The 7th meeting is coming to an end. In turn, I hope for an in-person meeting in St Petersburg next year, since many people miss the white nights, as Gary Pruitt said.
Thank you, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Sergei, I also want to thank you and our colleagues who joined us here today and wish some people good night and others good morning. I hope those who did not have enough sleep will be able to catch up on it today. I wish you all the best, and especially good health, which is so important today. In order to maintain good health, you need to be injected with a Russian vaccine like Sputnik V, which is a dependable and safe prophylaxis against this disease.
I wish you all the best. And I am sure this is not our last meeting. I hope your interest in Russia will continue to grow and will not wane, and that you will, in a conscientious and objective manner, inform your viewers and readers – those who consume your information product which you have created at such a high-quality international level – about what is happening in our country.
Thank you very much. All the best.
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 4, 2021, 23:00
Text version