Events
Leaders Summit on Climate
Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in the Leaders Summit on Climate. Organised by the United States, the event is being held on April 22–23.
April 22, 2021
16:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
The President of Russia put forth Russia’s position regarding the development of broad international cooperation aimed at mitigating the negative consequences of global climate change.
On the Russian side, the summit was also attended by Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Alexander Kozlov
and Adviser to the President and Special Presidential Representative on Climate Issues Ruslan Edelgeriyev
.
* * *
Speech at the Leaders Summit on Climate
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen,
Our discussion today has demonstrated our deep mutual concern over climate change and our interest in stepping up international efforts to resolve this problem. The success of our efforts will largely determine the future of the entire planet, the development prospects of every country, people’s welfare and their quality of life.
We believe that the universal agreements reached at the UN provide a reliable legal framework for the joint efforts of states to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
I would like to point out that Russia is scrupulously implementing its international commitments in this sphere. This concerns, first of all, the implementation of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. We have been working energetically to formulate modern legislation to ensure reliable control over carbon emissions and to stimulate their reduction.
Yesterday I delivered my annual Address to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, and one of the top priority tasks I have set in terms of socioeconomic development was to substantially limit cumulative emissions in our country by 2050.
I am sure that this task is feasible despite Russia’s size, its geographical, climatic and structural peculiarities. Let me recall that compared to 1990, Russia has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions more than many other countries. These emissions were cut in half – from 3.1 billion to 1.6 billion tonnes of СО2 equivalent. This was a result of the fundamental restructuring of Russian industry and energy over the past 20 years.
As a result, now 45 percent of our energy balance comes from low-emission energy sources, including nuclear power. It is common knowledge that nuclear power plants produce almost zero greenhouse gas emissions throughout their life cycle.
We intend to continue increasing the scale of associated gas utilisation. We will also continue implementing our large-scale programme for ecological modernisation and higher energy efficiency in all economic sectors. We will ensure the capture, storage and use of carbon dioxide from all sources and create the infrastructure for producing hydrogen as both a raw material and a source of energy.
I would like to mention in this context that Russia’s Sakhalin Region has launched a pilot project to create a carbon pricing and trading system. This project will allow this Russian region to reach carbon neutrality by 2025.
Obviously, the situation that provoked the global warming and related problems emerged a long time ago. What do we think about comprehensive solutions to these problems?
First. Carbon dioxide has been in the atmosphere for hundreds of years. Therefore, it is not enough to talk just about new amounts of emissions. It is important to absorb the carbon dioxide that has already accumulated in the atmosphere. It is no exaggeration to say that Russia is making an enormous contribution to the absorption of global emissions, both our own and those of others, owing to the absorbing capacity of our ecosystems, which is estimated at 2.5 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent a year.
Second, we must take into account absolutely every cause of global warming. For example, methane accounts for 20 percent of anthropogenic emissions. The greenhouse effect of each tonne of methane is 25–28 times greater than a tonne of СО2. Experts believe that if we could halve methane emissions in the next 30 years, global temperatures would decrease by 0.18 degrees by 2050. The difference between this figure and the target set in the Paris Agreement is about 45 percent.
In this context, it would be extremely important to develop broad and effective international cooperation in the calculation and monitoring of all polluting emissions into the atmosphere.
We urge all interested countries to take part in joint research, to invest in climate projects that can have a practical effect and to redouble efforts to create low-carbon technologies to mitigate the consequences and adjust to climate change.
Third, I have no doubt that climate efforts should, of course, rally the efforts of the entire international community. Russia is willing to propose a number of joint projects and discuss possible incentives for foreign companies that would like to invest in clean technology, including in our country.
And lastly, global development should not just be green but also sustainable in the full meaning of the word – and for all countries without exception. And consequently, it should be closely connected with progress in such high-priority areas as efforts against poverty and closing development gaps.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that the Russian Federation is genuinely interested in stepping up international cooperation so that we can continue to search for effective solutions to climate change, as well as other acute global problems. In fact, this should be the goal of the current video summit.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
Climate
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 22, 2021, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko who arrived in Russia on a working visit.
April 22, 2021
18:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Meeting with President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko,
I am happy to see you. There are many events.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Very many.
Vladimir Putin: Life is taking its course, but there are fundamental things that concern our bilateral relations. We also have things to discuss in a multilateral format.
To begin with, despite the pressing issues that we are bound to discuss today, I would like to note that our relations are making steady headway. Last time we agreed that despite the pandemic and a certain reduction in trade, it is still substantial, almost $30 billion, $29.5 billion to be more exact. I know that we will restore all of it. There is every opportunity for this.
Our teams continue to upgrade the legislation on building the Union State. Indeed, there is still a lot to do in this area, but much has already been done, especially in the social sphere. Our citizens enjoy equal rights in the social area: pension support, social issues, employment and healthcare. We have already achieved quite a bit. There are other issues on which we must come to terms and coordinate our positions. This is generally going well. Our teams are doing a good job. I am referring to both the Government and Administration teams and now to a special services team.
We are deepening our military-technical cooperation and expanding our cooperation in security in the broadest sense of this word.
I am very happy to see you. Welcome.
Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you, Mr Putin, for the invitation.
First, I would like to congratulate you on the end of yet another presidential period that I would describe as very difficult and critical. The annual Presidential Address is always a big job. You will agree that many people are involved in it. However, the President still bears the brunt of the burden: he must decide what this Address will include. We noted a big human touch in this Address.
I wholeheartedly agree with the conclusions made in the Address and particularly support your emphasis on people. The problems are the same; they concern the population. As they used to say before, our people are emancipated, very advanced. We do not always have what we want, so we must focus on the birth rate, and I will repeat this again and again.
We provide our people with similar support, especially families with many children. This is a priority in our country. This is why we approve of this.
At the end of last year you and I mapped out a programme for our presidential activities for the end of 2020 and for 2021. As you said, we met in Sochi twice and discussed various problems, not only current issues but also strategic goals. Last time, we agreed that our governments would do a serious job in Minsk.
Thank you. Mr Mishustin arrived and spoke as an academician. He is doing great. He did an excellent job there. He spoke about the economy, finance, taxation and the tax administration and the effectiveness of the taxation system. I will tell you about all this later. We came to a certain common conclusion. And, you and I also agreed that after studying these issues we would meet today and discuss them again. In June we will hold a forum of regions in the Moscow Region, and later we will decide on a meeting of the Supreme State Council in autumn, where we will be able to formalise our agreements by signing certain documents.
In general, we are making good progress on union programmes. Do you remember how we started with maps? Very serious programmes. Probably, we have coordinated 26 or 27 programmes at the government level. There are a few left – two or three very serious economic programmes, including taxation. We made a decision in Minsk on this well-known programme. So, I agree with you, we are moving forward bit by bit.
However, some pressing issues must be resolved, including security and defence in our Union State, although we are probably doing okay for now. I would rather put it correctly: we will deal with this. We will draw a line that nobody will be allowed to cross, and we will respond appropriately to those who do not understand that we must be calm and live in harmony in this hectic world.
Remark: Mr President, may I ask you and President Lukashenko just a few questions? With your permission.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead, please.
Question: The day before yesterday President of Ukraine Vladimir Zelensky offered to meet with you any place in Donbass. What will your response be? How will you reply?
If I may, a question for Mr Lukashenko as well. Ukraine refused, let’s put it that way, to work in the Minsk venue in the Trilateral Group. What do you think about this?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: As for the proposal of the Ukrainian leadership and President Zelensky, I would like to say the following.
As of late, the current Ukrainian leadership took many steps that are destroying Russian-Ukrainian relations. This applies directly to a number of problems in bilateral relations. It includes their attitude towards the Russian Orthodox Church and attempts to destroy it. This applies to their attitude towards the Russian language and Russian-speaking citizens of Ukraine and Russian citizens living in Ukraine. Many steps have been taken to destroy our relations, which we can only regret.
However, if President Zelensky wants to start restoring these relations, we will only welcome this. A question suggests itself: what would we discuss at this meeting? If the discussion concerns the problems of Donbass, the Ukrainian leaders must, first of all, meet with the heads of the republics – the LPR and the DPR, and then review the problems with representatives of third countries, that is, Russia in this case. This is the first point.
Now the second point – if the matter concerns the development of bilateral relations, this is fine, we will receive the President of Ukraine in Moscow anytime at his convenience.
Alexander Lukashenko: If they want to talk to Donbass, they can [meet] in Donbass. Let them meet, right? That is their business.
Vladimir Putin: They should meet there first.
Alexander Lukashenko: This is what I’m saying – he should meet with them there, in Donbass.
Vladimir Putin: [He should] meet with them – the two leaders of these two republics, Denis Pushilin and Leonid Pasechnik. I believe this is the first thing to be done. Then these issues can be discussed with third parties, Russia included.
Alexander Lukashenko: It seems to me it is high time for Vladimir Zelensky to learn, among other things, the code of diplomatic manners. So much for Donbass.
As for the Tripartite Contact Group in Belarus, Mr Putin, Mr Poroshenko – everyone who was there at the time, approached me, asking to organise [a meeting]. I said: “Agreed.” If they do not like it anymore, well, they can choose another country, but it is important to keep in mind that those people who proposed [Minsk as a venue for the talks] back then should reach a consensus on this matter. If Mr Putin, Mr Zelensky and other officials involved in tackling this issue agree on this, the group, of course, can work elsewhere. We have a saying: good riddance to bad rubbish. So after all we are not taking these statements very much to heart. You might have missed their statement, which they later refuted, that the President allegedly refused to even discuss this issue. This is nonsense. Is there anything to be discussed?
Vladimir Putin: Belarus just provided the venue and is in no way interfering with this process.
Alexander Lukashenko: Absolutely.
Vladimir Putin: In no way. Belarus just created working conditions for those who want to seek solutions to the problem. If someone is unwilling to do this, then of course, reasons can always be found to not work in this very important, in my opinion, area. There seems to be a search for reasons exactly like this to avoid discussing the Donbass issue.
Alexander Lukashenko: And to discard the Minsk Agreements in so doing.
Vladimir Putin: Discard them altogether.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 22, 2021, 18:20
Text version