Events
UN Security Council high-level debate on maritime security
The Russian President took part, via videoconference, in the UN Security Council high-level debate Maintenance of international peace and security: Maritime security.
August 9, 2021
15:55
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Vladimir Putin took part in the UN Security Council high-level debate Maintenance of international peace and security: Maritime security (via videoconference).
The event took place at the initiative of Prime Minister of the Republic of India Narendra Modi
. India holds the presidency of the UN Security Council in August 2021.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, my dear friend, Mr Modi, ladies and gentlemen,
Let me thank you, Mr Prime Minister, for the fact that you, as someone who is currently holding the UN Security Council presidency, convened this Security Council meeting to discuss an important and sensitive topic, namely, modern challenges and threats in maritime security. Your initiative is in line with the constructive role that India has traditionally played in the international arena, thus contributing to the promotion of multifaceted, mutually beneficial and equitable cooperation.
The seas and oceans have always connected people and civilisations. Unfortunately, sea routes are fraught with many threats. That is why it is important that today we are reviewing substantive practical matters related to fighting “21st century piracy” meaning to establish a more effective counteraction to transnational crime and prevent the use of seas and oceans for criminal purposes.
As you, Mr Prime Minister, aptly mentioned in your remarks, for us to achieve meaningful success in this area, we must unite the efforts of all stakeholders, as well as international organisations and regional associations with the central coordinating role of the UN and the UN Security Council.
I have said it more than once and now, addressing the Security Council members, and I would like to reiterate that Russia stands for strict observance of the key norms and principles of international law enshrined in the UN Charter, such as respect for sovereignty, non-interference in internal affairs and resolution of disputes by way of dialogue.
I hope that the participants in our debates will agree that the UN principles are mandatory in the sphere of peaceful and responsible use of marine spaces, their natural resources, protection of the marine environment, and sustainable economic activity in the vast swathes of our planet covered by water.
As a leading maritime power, Russia is doing much to preserve and strengthen the international legal order as it applies to maritime security. Our country is strongly involved in activities covering the entire range of these issues both at the UN and as part of numerous regional formats, including the Contact Group on Piracy off the Coast of Somalia, the ASEAN Regional Forum and East Asian summits.
Russia is also interested in building productive cooperation with the Indian Ocean Rim Association and the Indian Ocean Commission.
And, of course, we are trying to help ensure security in the Persian Gulf zone and the Gulf of Guinea in the Atlantic, where cases of sea banditry with hostage taking have become more frequent.
The specific nature of the situation is that it is really difficult for some countries to defend themselves from international criminal syndicates, pirates and terrorists. This is why there is the matter of uniting the power potential of all the interested countries’ special services and corresponding troops under the auspices of the UN.
Russia is ready to further share its experience in antiterrorist operations as well as in preventing crime, and identifying and eliminating bandit groups, including at sea.
We believe it would be useful to regularly exchange insights and best practices in countering terrorism, armed robbery and criminal activities at sea.
In this context, it would be feasible to think about establishing a special structure within the UN that would directly address problems related to combatting maritime crime in various regions. At the same time, this body would rest on UN member states’ support and actively involve experts, representatives of civil society, researchers and even private businesses in its work. We hope that our partners would consider Russia’s proposal constructively.
In conclusion I would like to reaffirm that the Russian Federation is committed to the common task of countering crime at sea in all its forms. We are ready to further promote the development of equal international cooperation in this area.
I would like once again thank our Indian friends for this useful initiative to hold this meeting today and to wish India continued success in implementing its functions as president of the United Nations Security Council this month.
Colleagues, thank you for your attention.
Topics
Foreign policy
UN
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 9, 2021, 15:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russia Paralympic team
Vladimir Putin had a videoconference meeting with members of the Russia Paralympic team now completing their preparation for the upcoming Tokyo Games at training centres in various regions of Russia.
August 9, 2021
14:10
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with the Russian Paralympic team (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, my friends.
I hope everyone can hear and see me. I am also delighted to see you all.
In just a few days, the Summer Paralympic Games will open in Tokyo. Meeting with the national team before this important period has become a good tradition of ours. When I say ‘ours,’ I am not referring only to myself, but to all my colleagues who have joined us today. True, this time our format is different: you are at your training centres scattered accross Russia. But I am sure that even a videoconference can convey the warmth we all feel, our worries and concerns for you, our pride in your achievements in life and in sports.
I know that you have performed brilliantly in your qualifying tournaments, showed good results, fully demonstrating your legendary mettle and incredible willpower. The Paralympic movement’s mission is to inspire and amaze the world – this is specifically about you.
After a prolonged hiatus, Russian athletes will again demonstrate their unique skills at your main competition, the Paralympics.
Our team’s path towards its goal turned out to be a long one, and the postponement for one year because of the pandemic was not the only reason. We all remember the Russian team’s unfair expulsion from Rio de Janeiro in 2016, still feeling bitterness over the absurd decision to suspend the Russian Paralympic Committee’s membership in the International Committee. That was perhaps one of the most compelling pieces of evidence of direct political interference in sports.
Fortunately, the situation is changing, and all of us –fans and athletes alike – are looking forward to the start of the Tokyo Games with particular excitement.
Over the years, Russian Paralympic athletes have achieved outstanding victories at top international competitions. Our delegation in Tokyo includes eminent athletes as well as promising, bright young competitors.
Your unyielding will, your dedication to win in spite of all odds provides an incredibly powerful stimulus for millions of people around the world. I think it is fundamentally important for the media, including federal television channels, and federal radio stations, to cover Paralympic sports as broadly and thoroughly as possible, and I will ask our colleagues from the media to do so.
Paralympic tournaments and championships are much more than just sporting events. Competitions between people who have reached the heights of fortitude, disdained any challenges, and expanded the boundaries of human capabilities are the best and necessary example for everyone of how one should live, believe in themselves and work towards their goals.
All of us – our vast and beautiful Russia – are very proud of you and wish you great victories. I am sure you will fight for yourselves and for your coaches and mentors, for your friends, for your towns and regions, and for our entire big country, and Russia’s flag and anthem will be in your hearts.
I have no doubt that you all have the most combative attitude, and are eager and ready to fight. Still, I would like to hear more about you; I want you to tell me if you are happy with your living and training conditions, or if there is anything we can do to help at the moment. Whatever it is, I am ready to hear out your questions and comments.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Here is what I would like to say in conclusion.
The training of the Paralympic team to reach such heights as the Paralympic competition is always related to special difficulties and issues that require close attention.
The Minister just spoke about doctors and experts and their delicate work. These are people with superior skills, I mean the experts: coaches, organisers and psychologists. I also want to personally thank all the experts who have worked with you for many years. They require special attention and are worthy of particular respect.
But, of course, all the attention will be focused on you guys, your successes and achievements. I never for a moment doubt that you will succeed.
I wish you luck with all my heart. We will be watching the Paralympics and rooting for you fervently.
I wish you all the best.
Topics
Disabled individuals
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 9, 2021, 14:10
Text version