Events
Meeting on heating season
The President held a meeting, via videoconference, on the autumn-winter heating season.
December 29, 2021
18:15
St Petersburg
1 of 2
Meeting on heating season (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Energy Minister Nikolai Shulginov
, Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
, and Director General of Rosseti Andrei Ryumin.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of meeting on the autumn-winter heating season
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
The New Year holidays are approaching and by tradition, many of our people will spend them at home, with their families and friends. All of us understand how important it is to ensure, during these long holidays, the reliable, failsafe operation of all housing and utility companies, continuous production cycle businesses, transport, and many other economic and social branches that provide services for the daily life of our cities and villages.
Today, I suggest discussing in detail how the national energy complex copes with peak loads. This year it is taking place against the backdrop of economic recovery and increasing energy consumption. In December, this indicator hit a historical high.
I would like to note that in general the national energy complex is working steadily. That said – I must put it straight – far from all regions keep their grids and equipment in proper condition. Meanwhile, before the start of the heating season, we discussed this situation many times, and I was assured that everything was in excellent shape everywhere. As usual, there are setbacks: some constituent entities of the Federation are facing difficulties in the operation of their housing and utility sectors and require additional material and human resources.
During the news conference last week, a journalist from Buryatia spoke about a major utility accident in Ulan-Ude. True, a fire at a station triggered it, but it was still an accident. Because of this emergency, many city residents were left without hot water and heating. I know that the regional authorities and relevant companies are doing all they can to eliminate the consequences of this accident.
At the same time, it is obvious that the federal authorities must also keep this issue under their permanent control. I would like to hear what measures to help Buryatia have been taken and what the plan is for them.
One more point. Another journalist, from Daghestan, said during the news conference that the region's energy companies are failing to meet the needs of the regional economy and social sphere. I know they have a tangle of longstanding problems such as low payment discipline, a non-transparent and ineffective structure of ownership of generating facilities and grids. I would also like to ask you to specifically look into this problem today.
Again, it is our most important responsibility to make sure that every flat and house, industrial and social facility across the country, every city and community is reliably supplied with heat and electricity. We need to ensure that the housing and utilities system works smoothly and accurately, especially in winter, during low temperatures, that energy resources are supplied regularly, predictably and at affordable prices. By the way, unfortunately, this is far from the case today in many countries.
The situation in the housing and utilities sector is primarily the responsibility of the regions and municipalities, and it is clear why. This industry is huge, and it is better to monitor locally the state of the heating and power grids, generating facilities, boiler houses, etc., to check what sections should be put into operation and when and what needs to be repaired in time.
At the same time, I would like to point out that the relevant federal ministry and the Government also need to constantly monitor the hands-on situation in the regions. Consumers do not have to care whose responsibility it is – it is important that everything functions properly, especially in those places where the climate is the most severe.
In those climates, any accident or abnormal situation can have the most serious consequences. It is extremely important to respond to emergencies quickly, as quickly as possible, to help our colleagues in the regions deal with any problem that might emerge.
Today I ask you to report on the tools and mechanisms you propose to employ in emergencies, as well as on your systemic work that is being done to improve the reliability of energy distribution. In this regard, let me remind you that housing and utility upgrades are among the key projects eligible for the easy-term infrastructure loans we provide to the regions.
I would like to close my opening remarks with yet another important matter. As you are aware, steady gas supply to the domestic market is our top priority when it comes to expanding gas infrastructure in our country, which is why major gas infrastructure development projects are underway in the regions. Residents of communities with pipeline gas availability will have gas brought to their houses before the end of 2022, as agreed.
To ensure reliable and stable distribution for the long term, the domestic fuel and energy companies are carrying out long-term development plans and developing new fields. Given the challenging circumstances our foreign partners are now in, Russia can increase gas exports.
The first string of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline was filled with technical gas in October. As I understand it – and I want Mr Miller, Gazprom CEO, to cover this in his report – the second string Nord Stream 2 will be filled with gas today. This pipeline’s total capacity is 55 billion cubic metres of gas, all supplied to our colleagues in Europe.
Again, I would like Mr Miller to cover this in detail. This additional route will undoubtedly help stabilise prices on the European market. I would like you to discuss this at the meeting today as well as the overall situation in Europe, because our main consumers are in Europe.
Let's move on to discussing the issues under review.
<…>
Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
: Mr President,
Ensuring a successful heating season in Russia is Gazprom’s main task. Prior to pumping gas from underground storage facilities, we had 72.638 billion cubic metres of reserve gas. It is possible to pump 847.9 million cubic metres daily. Reserve gas volumes and daily pumping capacities have hit an all-time high in this country.
There was a steep drop in ambient temperatures in Russia from the second week of December. On December 23, the average temperature was minus 17 degrees Celsius in all regions covered by the Unified Gas Supply System. This is 9.3 degrees lower than the average seasonal level. These days gas supplies to Russian consumers on the domestic market and the pumping of gas from the country’s underground gas reservoirs have reached an all-time high for the last 10 years since 2012.
At the same time, Gazprom has, as always, reliably supplied gas to Russian consumers and to our customers abroad, and it continues to do so. We completely fulfil our export contact obligations under long-term bilateral contracts in accordance with specific requests.
As of today, 12.36 billion cubic metres of gas, or 17 percent of all reserve gas, have been pumped from Russia’s underground storage facilities which are now filled to 83 percent of their capacity.
Mr President, as per your instruction, Gazprom pumped its own gas into Europe’s underground reservoirs throughout November and December. In late December, the volume of gas involved will total one billion cubic metres.
On December 21–25, European operators pumped record-breaking volumes of gas from underground European reservoirs, reaching the highest levels for many years. Today, Europe’s underground reservoirs have been depleted by 44 percent, and those of Germany, by 47 percent.
At the same time, it should be noted that reserve gas volumes in Europe’s underground reservoirs are 21 billion cubic metres less than for the same period in 2020. They are 28 percent or almost one-third lower. Underground reservoirs have a substantial shortage of gas, and this continues to have a serious impact on the European gas market.
Gazprom has completely fulfilled its obligations under a contract to pump gas via Ukrainian territory. We were to pump 40 billion cubic metres of gas, and we have already pumped 41.5 billion cubic metres of gas via Ukraine. On December 24, Ukraine’s underground reservoirs hit an all-time low in terms of reserve gas volumes. Today, Ukraine holds less than 14 billion cubic metres of gas reserves, which is ten billion less than it had in late December 2020.
Mr President, today at 12.58 pm Moscow time Gazprom completed filling the second string of Nord Stream 2, and now both legs of the pipeline are at the operating pressure and ready to go. The Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline has a design capacity of 55 billion cubic metres per year and is the longest offshore gas pipeline in the world, at 1,234 kilometres.
Mr President, the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline is ready for operation.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate Gazprom and your Nord Stream 2 partners on the completion of this project to build this large additional pipeline and on this pipeline being ready for operation. Now the start is up to our partners, consumers in Europe, in Germany. As soon as they make the decision on the launch of operation, a large additional amount of Russian gas will immediately begin to flow towards Europe. Let me remind you that we are talking about 55 billion cubic metres a year. By the way, this should immediately affect the price on the market, on the spot market. And all those countries and consumers of Russian gas are bound to feel it right away. This applies to businesses and households alike.
Even in Ukraine, this should shift prices downward, because they buy a significant amount of Russia-produced gas at European market prices, which are fairly high – $1,000 or more, $1,000 per 1,000 cubic metres. This will immediately influence the prices in a country like Ukraine, which, for political reasons, unfortunately, refuses to buy gas directly from Russia and has to pay such a high price because of this. But if the Nord Stream begins operation, it will also have a positive effect on prices for a country like Ukraine.
But again, now it is our European partners’ turn to act, and it is up to them. We have completed a project to develop this additional gas transportation route with our partners, by the way, European companies, with five European companies. Nord Stream 2 is ready to go.
So much for our exports. I would like to return to where we started, back to the matters that brought us together today. We need to make sure that Russia goes through the period of the lowest temperatures safely and reliably, without any failures. We know that certain disruptions are inevitable in such cold weather as we observe today. As long as the response is instantaneous, and all repairs are performed as quickly as possible and with high quality, people will not feel any disruptions in the energy system’s operation.
I would like to ask Mr Maxim Oreshkin
and his colleagues to prepare draft instructions following this meeting.
Happy New Year, everyone!
Goodbye, and all the best.
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 29, 2021, 18:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko at the Constantine Palace.
December 29, 2021
16:35
St Petersburg
1 of 3
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko,
Thank you for staying for our bilateral meeting after the CIS events held yesterday. For me, yesterday’s meetings were very productive. We discussed a whole number of areas for expanding relations with the CIS countries.
Today, we will be able to discuss bilateral relations between Russia and Belarus, as well as the results of building the Union State, in a calm manner, without any rush. Indeed, we have made substantial headway this year, while coordinating our positions on key aspects.
We have approved 28 programmes for the Union State development. These key elements might not be noticeable at first, but they are quite substantial in the context of expanding modern international and close integration processes between both states. First, this concerns financial matters, taxation, customs and fiscal legislation. This is very important; it will create better conditions for developing the economy of both countries.
Unfortunately, bilateral trade volumes dropped by almost 17 percent during the 2020 pandemic, but they rebounded and grew by almost 36 percent this year. In effect, we have compensated for our 2020 losses…
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: And we have added more.
Vladimir Putin: And we have added almost twice as much. In this connection, I believe we should thank our colleagues from the Government of Russia and the Government of Belarus.
We have serious plans for implementing our interaction. You and I have been talking for almost 60 minutes, and we will continue this discussion at lunch.
I would also like to thank you for invariably supporting these processes, and I hope that we will continue to maintain the same productive cooperation in 2022, as well.
Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you, Mr President.
I share your positive assessment of yesterday’s event. It may have been an informal meeting, but we were still able to discuss matters of principle, including subjects where there has been a lack of progress, such as humanitarian matters related to science, the Russian language, and so forth.
It was quite a pleasant surprise that all our colleagues supported your proposals on the humanitarian agenda. I believe you will share this information with your people when the time comes. This was a positive event, held in an atmosphere of kindness and warmth.
Once again, we saw that the leaders of the post-Soviet republics, including Belarus, have a very keen understanding of the ongoing developments and can see through global politics in all its intricacies, thanks to Russia, of course. Russia has always had to deal with this for all of us, and this time is no exception, but in this way you have showed that we can rely on you. All of us, heads of state, showed that we do understand what is going on, and people in our countries understand this too. Trust me, this generates a unifying momentum in our relations prompting us to resolve the issues we face together.
You mentioned our recent agreements on developing the Union State. Our governments created groups for fulfilling these agreements and implementing them in Belarusian and Russian law. We are heading in this direction to ensure that the contours you have outlined become reality. This is what our efforts are all about.
Of course, you are aware of the developments in Belarus. I am really grateful, and my gratitude primarily goes personally to you, for what you have done for Belarus, and the support you have given us. It is not my intention to adulate you in any way, but whenever we propose or ask for something, you issue instructions to the right people, and Russian companies, the Russian Government and banks always respond and are ready to support us in these challenging times of sanctions.
Belarus is still being strangled: they imposed five sanction packages on us and are talking about a sixth round. Needless to say, these are silly sanctions, and no one needs them. Our trade increased, and so did our GDP this year despite the sanctions and the pandemic, which is by and large due to the Russian Federation and, to a lesser extent, our friends on the international stage. I would like to sincerely thank you for that in public. Make no mistake, no matter the state of our relations, the people of Belarus always pay their debts.
I believe that there is still much we can do together. I have been asking you for a long time not to stop our cooperation on the military and defence sectors and the defence industry and move beyond them. You have always supported me in this regard. I asked you not to stop our joint exercises, while also creating training centres for teaching our military to use the latest military equipment we buy from Russia. We are doing this, so the exercises must also carry on.
I know that you and your military officials are reviewing my proposals on holding exercises in Belarus. I would like you to decide on this matter. This would benefit Belarus-Russia relations.
This goes to say that we are cooperating across the board and will keep doing so.
Vladimir Putin: As you suggested, we will hold exercises at the beginning of the year. The military command will coordinate the dates – in March or February – I don’t know when they will decide.
As for the economy, I would like to note that our experts also believe that the Belarusian economy is in good shape, good financials, as far as I know, you are even going to close with a surplus. So in general, Belarus is a reliable partner for us, not only for political considerations, but based on the economic situation in the real sector of the economy. In this sense, I think we have achieved a lot over the past year, and I hope we will continue this in the next.
Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you for supporting our cooperation and import substitution. It turns out we can do a lot.
Vladimir Putin: Of course. I think we have taken another good step in giving Belarusian enterprises access to state procurement in Russia. This significantly expands the opportunities for Belarusian companies, and is also beneficial for us, because it increases the level of competition in the market.
Alexander Lukashenko: We had better compete with Russian companies.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, that’s right. The level of internal competition must be maintained. In this sense, this was an informed decision that will benefit both Belarus and Russia.
Alexander Lukashenko: We have come to an agreement on – we can say this, we have talked for an hour already – thank you again for supporting the cooperation plans in the aircraft industry. We have both civilian and military aircraft manufacturing plants. We can contribute a lot in terms of cooperation, especially since our products are in demand for the Russian aircraft industry and your new airplane.
Vladimir Putin: This will also be one of the instructions for the Government following our meeting.
Thank you.
<…>
See also
Informal meeting of the CIS heads of state
December 28, 2021
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 29, 2021, 16:35
Text version