Events
Vladimir Putin congratulated current staff and veterans of the Foreign Intelligence Service on the centenary of illegal intelligence
The President laid flowers at the Fatherland, Valour Honour monument at the Foreign Intelligence Service headquarters in Moscow and congratulated the Service’s current staff and veterans on the centenary of illegal intelligence.
June 30, 2022
20:00
Moscow
3 of 4
Vladimir Putin congratulated current staff and veterans of the Foreign Intelligence Service on the centenary of illegal intelligence. Photo: RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers, veterans,
We have gathered to mark an important date – the centenary of illegal intelligence in our country. Back in 1922, this sphere of work was virtually restored despite all the revolutionary upheavals, ensuring continuity in an area that is vital for our state, national security and sovereignty.
I would like to cordially congratulate all those for whom working in this critical area was their calling and destiny; those who defended our country’s national interests without any diplomatic or other cover for years and decades; and all those who conduct unique operations today, transmitting precious information to the Centre.
Your department has a rich history and glorious traditions. In the 1930s and early 1940s, undercover agents acquired time-sensitive information about the aggression planned by Hitler and his supporters as well as the backstage manoeuvring of Western countries that pushed the Nazis to attack the USSR, to march to the East.
After the start of the Great Patriotic War, undercover agents revealed the enemy’s plans, hastening the Great Victory. During the Cold War, they made an enormous contribution to achieving strategic parity. They provided invaluable assistance in developing domestic industry and science, helped build up the Motherland’s defence capabilities, and added to its international influence and prestige.
The names of Yakov Serebryansky and Naum Etingon, Dmitry Bystrolyotov and Konon Molody, the Vartanians, Alexei Botyan and other fighters of the invisible front are forever in the history of our country, our security services and intelligence. They are an example of professionalism and personal bravery for the current and future generations of intelligence officers.
And these days, work in this area is filled with great responsibility, officers facing extremely tough requirements.
The situation in the world remains difficult and changes rapidly. We have to deal with non-conventional problems and many unknown variables, and respond to challenges in which the factor of uncertainty is high.
In this situation, the Foreign Intelligence Service and other security services prioritise strategic forecasting of international processes. And this analysis must be realistic, objective and based on verified information and a wide range of reliable sources.
One should not indulge in wishful thinking. By the way, the so-called collective West has found itself trapped, has driven itself into this exact trap and in its own actions proceeds from the idea that there is no alternative to its model of liberal globalism. Essentially, this model is just an updated rendition of neocolonialism and nothing else. It is a world the American way, a world for the chosen where everybody else's rights are simply trampled upon.
Clear proof of that is the fate of many countries and peoples in the Middle East and other regions in the world – and millions of people in Ukraine today who are being cynically used by the West as expendable material in its geopolitical games, in its attempts to “deter” Russia. Speaking of which, what does it mean, to deter? To prevent us from developing at the right rate and on our own foundation of traditional values. Is it deterrence? It is just a fight against Russia.
Meanwhile, the West is trying to ignore an inconvenient reality, the forming of a multi-polar world order. Obviously, they cannot fully look away from these objective tendencies. But in their practical policy, they are guided by one goal, which is to maintain their dominance by any means.
The dogmatic attitudes of the past and unwillingness to face up to reality is inevitably increasing the risk of premature, impulsive actions on the part of the West in the future. At the same time, this offers new opportunities to Russia and likeminded countries – as you know, there are quite a few of them. It is true that some of them are not eager to speak out, but they are roughly on the same wavelength with us. There are many likeminded countries, peoples and nations that would like to go their own way based on the principles of true multilateralism.
Of course, we need to conduct a separate discussion on a model and vision of the future and an agenda that will not separate but unite humankind. I believe that it is important to dedicate one of my future public addresses to this subject or possibly choose some other format.
Today I would like to emphasise that multipolarity is, in my opinion, the main thing. I would like to point out that multipolarity, as we understand it, means above all freedom. The freedom of countries and nations and their inherent right to their own way of development and to the preservation of their identity and unique character. In this model of the world there should be no place for diktat, stereotypes or the ideals of exceptionalism enforced by individual countries or blocs.
I would like to repeat that it is important to see the overall picture against the background of ongoing fundamental transformations and to use this to act proactively. A great deal depends, of course, on you, on your work and its quality. I am referring first of all to national security and prompt provision of information about the military and geostrategic plans of certain states and their associations, which pose or can pose a direct threat to our country.
Constant attention must be given to the situation in the global economy and finance. It is important to study the situation and basic trends in the global markets, to work out the possible consequences of the steps and decisions that bear on the interests of Russia and Russian business, as well as our integration and international projects.
As before, one of the priorities of the Foreign Intelligence Service is to provide assistance to the industrial and technological development of our country and to the strengthening of its defence potential. This is always important, but especially so in conditions of the sanctions pressure put on Russia. Incidentally, as all of us know very well, our country always lived under sanctions during the Soviet period and even before it. One way or another, attempts were always made to contain us.
Another key objective on our agenda is the fight against international terrorism. It concerns, in part, information support for the Russian units deployed in Syria, the identification of the routes along which weapons and money are delivered to terrorists and the location of their bases, command posts and training centres.
We must continue to pay attention to the safety of Russian citizens abroad, including on the American continent, in the West in general, and in the Middle East and Africa. I would like to note in this context that over the past few years the Foreign Intelligence Service has seriously enhanced its operational and information and analysis capabilities. Its human resources have increased. I am confident that you will do everything necessary to commendably fulfil all the tasks set to you. Like your legendary predecessors, you will work accurately and effectively and will serve our Fatherland and people honourably.
I would like to congratulate you once again. I wish you and your loved ones all the best, good health and professional achievements.
Thank you.
My congratulations.
Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin: Colleagues,
Receiving this high assessment of the operations of the Foreign Intelligence Service, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary today, is a great honour to us and a sign of special recognition on the part of President of Russia Vladimir Putin. We are especially proud that the President has expressed this view at the Fatherland, Valour, Honour monument at the Service’s headquarters.
The centenary of illegal intelligence is a momentous event for our Service and the other agencies that are guarding the national security of the Russian Federation that has been noted with great interest in Russian society and by our foreign partners. It is a sign of recognition of the effectiveness of this sharp tool of intelligence operations at the Service’s disposal and of Russians’ respect for the heroism of our intelligence personnel who have devoted their lives to serving the Fatherland.
We are fully aware of the growing significance of illegal intelligence amid the military-political crisis in relations with Russia engineered by Washington and NATO countries. The leadership and personnel of Directorate S, our illegal agents, are honourably following in the footsteps of their predecessors, keeping up the high combat standards of the Directorate, and introducing novel forms and methods of intelligence work in the global digital environment and amid the tough counteraction of the enemy.
Comrades, I would like to once again congratulate you on the centenary of Soviet and Russian illegal intelligence. Russians are a nation of victors. We will do whatever it takes to ensure the security and prosperity of our great Fatherland.
I would like to wish you good health, every success and prosperity. Thank you for your service.
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 30, 2022, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Address to participants of 10th St Petersburg International Legal Forum
Vladimir Putin gave a video address to greet the participants of a plenary session of the 10th St Petersburg International Legal Forum. This year’s plenary session was themed Law in a Multipolar World. The video address was recorded during the President’s recent visit to St Petersburg.
June 30, 2022
12:30
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
I would like to welcome you to the 10th St Petersburg International Legal Forum, which, as always, has brought together leading jurists and practicing lawyers from many countries.
I am glad that after a forced interruption, the forum is again being held in person because even the most advanced communication technologies cannot replace a direct dialogue and face-to-face meetings.
Participants at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum recently discussed the most relevant political, financial, technological and cultural issues on the global agenda; many of these issues directly related to international law. It is important that you continue this conversation within this forum and discuss important topics like Law in a Multipolar World.
It is true, a multipolar system of international relations is now being formed. It is an irreversible process; it is happening before our eyes and is objective in nature. The position of Russia and many other countries is that this democratic, more just world order should be built on the basis of mutual respect and trust, and, of course, on the generally accepted principles of international law and the UN Charter.
At the same time, it is being said that law cannot adequately respond to the problems and challenges of today, to today’s turbulent and fundamental changes. There are also more radical assessments that the idea of international law is being dismantled. I fundamentally disagree with these conclusions.
Undoubtedly, the system of international law needs to be further developed, but we should not confuse cause and effect. Crises happen not because law is faulty, but because of attempts to replace law with dictate, and international standards with the national jurisdiction of certain states or groups of states in a deliberate refusal to follow essential legal principles – justice, conscientiousness, equality and humanity. These are not just legal ideals, but values that reflect the diversity of our civilisation.
Some states are not ready to accept losing their supremacy on the international stage, and they are striving to preserve the unjust unipolar model. Under the guise of what they call order based on rules, and other questionable concepts, they try to control and direct global processes at their own discretion, and hold to a course of creating closed blocs and coalitions that make decisions for the benefit of one country, the United States of America. The natural rights of others in international relations are being ignored; the fundamental principle of indivisibility of security is being used selectively. The West’s unilateral, illegitimate sanctions against sovereign states have reached an unprecedented scale.
I will add that the countries that advocate their own exceptionalism also overstep the law and cross out such concepts as inviolability of property and freedom of speech in their own domestic policy as well. In sum, the domination of one country or a group of countries on the global stage is not only counter-productive, but also dangerous and inevitably creates global, systemic risk.
The multipolar world of the 21st century does not have a place for inequality or for discrimination against states and peoples. Therefore, our country speaks for the practical realisation of the pivotal international legal principle of the sovereign equality of states and the right of each state to pursue its own development model.
The Russian foreign affairs agenda has always been and remains constructive. We develop multipolar relations with all who are interested in them and place great value on cooperation within the UN, the G20, BRICS, the SCO and other associations.
Russia is open to dialogue on ensuring strategic stability, preserving agreements on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and improving the situation in arms control. We are focused on joining efforts on crucial issues like the climate agenda, fighting famine, providing stability in food and energy markets, and fair rules in international trade and competition.
All of these areas require appropriate and flexible legal regulation and meticulous cooperation. With this approach, we could avoid crises such as the current one in Donbass that is happening to protect its residents from genocide – and there can be no other definition for the Kiev regime’s actions than “a crime against humanity.”
At the same time, Russia will continue to create a more democratic and just world where the rights of all peoples are guaranteed and mankind’s cultural and civilizational diversity is preserved.
I am confident that, by consistently following international law and joining our efforts, it is possible to resolve the most difficult problems that the world is facing and to provide for the stable, sustainable and progressive development of all states. Both practicing lawyers and jurists can and should bring a significant contribution to the recreation of the authority of law, strengthening its legal institutions and rebuilding trust in international relations.
I wish all of you productive work and interesting networking.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
Human rights
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 30, 2022, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Indonesia Joko Widodo
Vladimir Putin is holding talks in the Kremlin with President of Indonesia Joko Widodo, who is on a visit to Russia.
June 30, 2022
15:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of the Republic of Indonesia Joko Widodo.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
I am very happy to see you in Russia, in Moscow. I know this is your first visit to our country.
Indonesia is one of the countries with which we have developed very good ties after establishing diplomatic relations over the decades. Importantly, we are developing our relations in all areas, such as the economy, politics and security and, of course, the efforts to counter the threat of terrorism.
Last year, our trade increased by 42 percent and it has been growing even faster this year.
I know Indonesia is interested in developing relations with the Eurasian Economic Union
(EAEU), and we decided in May to start the process of its rapprochement with this regional organisation.
This year, you will chair a meeting of the G20
and next year you will be in charge of ASEAN
.
I am confident that we will focus on all of these issues today.
When we talked by telephone, you expressed concern over and interest in the issues of settling the crisis in Ukraine, in Donbass. Naturally, I will tell you in detail about everything that is happening there and about our perspective on this problem.
Welcome, Mr President!
President of the Republic of Indonesia Joko Widodo (retranslated): Mr President, thank you for this meeting.
We met in Sochi in 2016. This time I am visiting in Moscow, not only as President of Indonesia, but also as Chair of the G20. As Chair of the G20, Indonesia will continue to strive to strengthen the group in the current difficult situation, to fight the pandemic, as well as to ensure that the G20 continues to be a catalyst in the global economic recovery.
I would like to say a few things. I appreciate that you started talking to us about this situation, because the war has had a huge impact on food. This war has had an impact not only on Indonesia, but also on world communities, because Russia and Ukraine are among the world's bread baskets. Therefore, efforts to restore global supply chains are futile without integrating Russian food and fertiliser supplies and Ukrainian grain supplies. In this regard, I hope that Russia will not extend the ban on the export of grain, including wheat, and will not introduce quotas or restrictions on fertilisers.
Three days ago, during negotiations with the G7 countries, I asked them for guarantees that Russian food and fertilisers would be exempt from sanctions.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, the questions you have raised are extremely important. I would like to note right away that we do not have any restrictions on the export of fertilisers. At the beginning of last year, we thought about providing our own agriculture with fertilisers as a matter of priority. But today, the level of fertiliser production in Russia is so high that we do not have any restrictions on the supply of this product to foreign markets.
The same goes for food. The world produces 800 million tonnes of wheat. Russia supplied over 40 million tonnes of grain to foreign markets last year. This year, we will be ready to supply about 50 million tonnes.
As for wheat, Russia is an uncontested number one supplier to world markets.
Problems with the export of Ukrainian grain have been widely discussed of late. According to the US Department of Agriculture, they have 6 million tonnes of wheat. According to our information, it’s only about 5 million. Compared with the global production of 800 million tonnes, that amount clearly does not make much difference for world markets. It is only about 2.5 percent. And if we take all the food produced in the world, it’s 0.5 percent. Nevertheless, it is important, but we are not obstructing the export of Ukrainian grain. The Ukrainian military authorities have mined the approaches to their ports; no one prevents them from clearing the mines and letting ships with grain depart from those ports. We guarantee their security.
In addition, there are other export opportunities: via Romania, the Danube and then across the Black Sea, via Poland, via Belarus, and via the ports on the Sea of Azov. I have told our friends from the African Union about this in detail. We also maintain close working contacts on this issue with the relevant UN body, UNCTAD, which has assumed the responsibility to negotiate this issue with representatives of the EU and the United States.
The problem is that those countries have imposed sanctions against some of our seaports, created difficulties with cargo insurance and freighting. All this creates certain impediments on the food and fertiliser markets. I repeat that all these matters are being discussed with the direct involvement of UN Secretary-General [Antonio] Guterres. Top Russian Government officials and I are in constant working contact with our colleagues at the UN. I understand your concerns, Mr President, and I am ready to inform you in more detail about our efforts on this track, so that we could contribute to providing world markets with food and fertilisers.
Joko Widodo (retranslated): Mr President, is there such a possibility, is there such an approach where there is no security? We also said at the G7 meeting that food and fertilisers are not included in the sanctions.
Vladimir Putin: Formally, they are not included in the sanctions; this is true. But the owners of our companies that produce fertilisers, and even their family members, have been put on the sanction lists. This makes it difficult to conclude contracts and complicated financial transactions. They have imposed sanctions on cargo insurance. That is, they have not formally imposed any sanctions on the products, but they have created a situation where it is much more difficult now to supply these products to foreign markets.
Belarus is a leader in fertiliser supplies. But direct sanctions have been imposed on Belarusian fertilisers. Together with Belarus, Russia produces 25 percent of fertilisers, and supplies 45 percent to the market.
On top of that, the problem has absolutely nothing to do with our military operation in Donbass, in Ukraine. It all began a year ago and was caused by Western countries’ erroneous energy policies. Gas prices rose sharply due to some obvious mistakes in the energy sector – and natural gas is commonly used for fertiliser production. With high gas prices, many companies had to shut down because it was economically unfeasible to produce gas-based products.
As for food, as Western countries tried to alleviate the effects of the pandemic, they resorted to emissions, increasing their budget deficits and wiping out food from world markets with that new money. That naturally sent food prices up.
For example, in the past, the United States supplied more food to the world market than it imported. Now they buy $17 billion more than they sell. That is, they have printed and distributed money – and are using those dollars to buy food. That is spurring the prices on, and developing countries find themselves in the worst position in this regard.
We have been debating all these matters with them in absentia. You can debate all you want, but now some action needs to be taken lest the situation becomes tragic. I hope that during the preparations for the G20 meeting, you will also be able to work with us, with other interested countries and with the United Nations.
Thank you.
See also
Press statements following Russian-Indonesian talks
June 30, 2022
Geography
Indonesia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Widodo Joko
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 30, 2022, 15:50
Text version