Events
Meeting with Pavel Malkov
Pavel Malkov has been appointed Acting Governor of the Ryazan Region.
May 10, 2022
20:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
Pavel Malkov has been appointed Acting Governor of the Ryazan Region.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Malkov, good afternoon.
Pavel Malkov: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Malkov, you are a highly experienced person, heading an important business organisation in Moscow.
See also
Pavel Malkov appointed Acting Governor of the Ryazan Region
May 10, 2022
An important feature of your biography is that you served as a deputy prime minister of the Saratov Region Government. This means that you are aware of what real life, a real economy is all about. You also held a post at the Economic Development Ministry of Russia and I am sure you have focused on the Ryazan Region, which is the centre, the heartland of Russia.
Please, I would like to hear how you see the region’s main problems and development trends.
Pavel Malkov: Mr President, of course, I have visited Ryazan on numerous occasions both on official business and for personal needs. It is a very interesting and vibrant region, remarkable for its history, culture, and, of course, people.
People are the main priority. The first thing to do is to sort out problems that are of concern for the people and start solving them one by one. In parallel, we will devise a regional development strategy, a vision for positioning the region in the current economic environment. I think about a month will suffice for this purpose. If trust is placed in me, I am ready to report on these proposals.
Vladimir Putin: All right. Within a month?
Pavel Malkov: Yes, sir.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Then it is a deal.
I hope that you will plunge deep into the Ryazan Region’s problems. Pavel Malkov: I certainly will.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Pavel Malkov: Thank you very much.
Geography
Ryazan Region
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Persons
Malkov Pavel
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 10, 2022, 20:10
Text version