Events
Meeting with Samara Region Governor Dmitry Azarov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Governor of the Samara Region Dmitry Azarov. The region's development was discussed.
October 18, 2022
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 4
With Samara Region Governor Dmitry Azarov.
At the beginning of the conversation, the President noted that the overall situation in the Samara Region was stable, and a lot of indicators were higher than the average in Russia, for example investment in fixed capital, the level of industrial production, and construction. Among the problematic issues, Vladimir Putin mentioned dilapidated housing and the systemic issue of the environment.
Mr Azarov
informed the President that the region’s economy had adapted to the sanctions and actually managed to restore its 2021 positions, primarily due to active and proactive investment. The region has confidently joined the top 10 in terms of investment appeal, after coming in 65th in 2021.
After the suspension of investment projects in 2020, during the coronavirus pandemic, the pace of investment has accelerated. Over four years, about 10,000 jobs were created annually. Today, according to the governor, there are 44,500 vacancies and 12,000 registered unemployed.
There was a record harvest this year: 33 centners per hectare, 3.5 million tonnes of cereals and legumes were harvested. Every year, 25,000 hectares are returned to agricultural circulation. Agricultural equipment is being upgraded: about 2,000 units of new equipment over four years, including combine harvesters.
Dmitry Azarov also reported on the support for the sister city of Snezhnoye in the Donetsk People's Republic. A joint plan for the repair of housing and utilities infrastructure has been approved. It includes 81 facilities. Most of the work has already been completed, including not only a system of heat supply, water supply, sanitation, but also schools, a museum, and a children's and youth sports school. Almost all the people of the region have taken part in this assistance to Donbass. More than 1,500 tonnes of cargo, or 84 humanitarian convoys have been sent. These are donations from individuals, public organisations and enterprises.
Dmitry Azarov said a lot of events were being held in support of the special military operation and the Armed Forces. In particular, he mentioned an event held by women – the wives of officers and soldiers, the Women's Council of the Second Guards Army. They called it The Wives of Heroes. They held a photo exhibition on the streets of Samara, in this way supporting their husbands, fighters. This event has already found a response in other military units.
According to Mr Azarov, the region had experienced a certain rise in the number of Covid-19 cases since the end of August. He said the region was fully prepared for this situation, and although the number of hospitalised patients was significantly lower, coronavirus hospitals were nevertheless deployed. The number of free beds remained constant at about 25 percent. Advanced testing was carried out, making it possible to detect the disease at an early stage, prepare the regional healthcare system, start treatment earlier, and prevent severe cases of the disease. Thanks to the national project and the support of the President, a new infectious diseases hospital has been built in Syzran, two covid hospitals in Samara and Togliatti; and the construction of a children's infectious diseases hospital is nearing completion.
In addition to this, the governor said that over the four years, 110 new healthcare facilities were created; 200 hospitals were repaired and put in order. The ambulance rolling stock has been completely updated. All this has been done thanks to federal support, regional funds, and cooperation with the Rostec state corporation.
Geography
Samara Region
Topics
Agriculture
Economy and finance
Healthcare
Investment
2 more
Persons
Azarov Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 18, 2022, 13:30
Text version