Events
Launch of Titan-Polymer plant
Vladimir Putin took part in a videoconference ceremony for launching production at the Titan-Polymer plant.
December 28, 2022
16:30
St Petersburg
3 of 4
Vladimir Putin took part in a videoconference ceremony for launching production at the Titan-Polymer plant.
Titan-Polymer is implementing an investment project to create an import-substitution production of BoPET film and polyethylene terephthalate (PET), used in the production of various types of industrial packaging, audio and microelectronics, and in pharmaceutical production. The plant is a major resident of the Moglino special economic zone.
The launch ceremony was also attended by Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Governor of the Pskov Region Mikhail Vedernikov
, and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Titan-Polymer Mikhail Sutyaginsky.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends. I am happy to see you.
We agreed to hold this pleasant event in person but, unfortunately, I could not fly out of St Petersburg due to weather conditions. So, we will proceed in the usual online format.
Today, we will see the production facilities of the Titan-Polymer company in the Pskov Region. The plant will produce large volumes of polymer products.
I want to thank all the professionals who worked to build this production facility, who used advanced technology and engineering solutions and are now launching this modern plant, thus strengthening Russia’s industrial sovereignty.
The plant’s planned capacity is around 72,000 tonnes of various types of polymer products a year. These products will be in demand in the pharmaceutical industry, production of medications and food packaging, and other industries. Colleagues, I am certain that this plant will be able to satisfy demand and contribute to import substitution.
As far as I know, there is a plan to build an entire industrial cluster of companies using Titan-Polymer products in the Pskov Region. Of course, this is an interesting and good idea. I hope the regional authorities will look into it. This cooperation and launch of production projects will create new jobs and strengthen the region’s economy and social sphere, which will stimulate small and medium-sized businesses focused on associated industries.
I want to stress that the state will support the creation of more production facilities of this kind. We need them for dynamic economic development and to increase the production of our own high-quality products. We will continue to facilitate the development of modern high-tech companies across the country and to create the most comfortable conditions for investors.
Finally, I would like to thank everybody who participated and is participating in this promising project for your work. Of course, I wish success to the plant’s team. Happy New Year. I wish you good health and all the best.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to Northwestern Federal District
December 26 − 28, 2022
Geography
Pskov Region
Topics
Industry
Persons
Manturov Denis
Vedernikov Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 28, 2022, 16:30
Text version