Events
Opening sections of the M12 and M5 motorways and the Yekaterinburg Ring Road
Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in a ceremony marking the opening to traffic of new and reconstructed sections of transport network, including the M12 and M5 motorways as well as the Yekaterinburg Ring Road.
September 8, 2022
16:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
Ceremony for opening sections of M12 and M5 motorways and the Yekaterinburg Ring Road (held via videoconference).
The ceremony was attended by Moscow Region Governor Andrei Vorobyov
, Sverdlovsk Region Governor Yevgeny Kuyvashev
, Chelyabinsk Region Governor Alexei Teksler
and workers and specialists who were part of the construction project.
During the videoconference, Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin
and Transport Minister Vitaly Savelyev
described the development of the road network in Russia and plans for the future.
The 23-kilometre section of the M-12 Moscow-Nizhny Novgorod-Kazan motorway, the first section that has opened to traffic, links the Central Ring Road with the Moscow Big Ring Road. The M-12 motorway will pass through the Moscow, Vladimir and Nizhny Novgorod regions, as well as the republics of Chuvashia and Tatarstan.
The third stage of the Yekaterinburg Ring Road completes this construction project and allows vehicle traffic to circle the capital of the Sverdlovsk Region.
A 40-km section of the M-5 Yekaterinburg-Chelyabinsk motorway has been reconstructed completely and will ensure four-lane traffic between both cities along the entire route.
The new motorway sections will reduce the load on the transport network in several regions, make long-distance travel easier and will form an integral transport corridor from St Petersburg to Chelyabinsk and Tyumen.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
I am happy to see you all.
Today, we are simultaneously opening several long new sections of motorways in the Moscow, Chelyabinsk and Sverdlovsk regions.
We are commissioning the first section of the M12 Moscow-Kazan motorway in the Moscow Region, thus opening this significant route to traffic.
Today, we will also open traffic on the reconstructed section of the M5 motorway. This section has been expanded to four lanes, and it will improve transport connections between Chelyabinsk and Yekaterinburg, the largest cities in the Ural area.
Additionally, the Ring Road will open completely after the third, and final, stage of construction. The speed and safety of highway traffic will increase in the region, and the environmental situation will change for the better.
These completed projects are important steps in developing a reliable transcontinental route that will link western and eastern Russia.
I would like to note that, according to the plans, the Moscow-Kazan-Yekaterinburg route is to be completed by late 2024. With the already operational Neva Motorway, it will take 17.5 hours, rather than 31 hours, to reach Yekaterinburg from St Petersburg. The duration of these trips will almost be cut in half.
These high-speed and well-equipped motorways have strategic significance for the country; they help attract investment and expand exports; they help unlock the potential of adjacent territories more effectively, and they positively influence the entire national economy and the quality of people’s lives.
We have a lot of work to do to build truly effective and convenient transport corridors in eastern and southern Russia. The development of major logistics centres, new freight processing hubs that redistribute consignments between various transport systems is an important element in this work. These instructions have already been issued. Today, I would like to ask you to report on how this is going.
I would also like to remind you that new roads, including the ones opened today, must feature the necessary infrastructure and amenities for drivers, passengers, motorists and tourists, including fuel stations, stores and leisure areas. You and Ihave repeatedly discussed the need for this infrastructure. Today, I am asking you to report on the situation in this sphere, specifically, the situation with these companies and services on these newly-opened motorway sections.
Let’s get to work.
<…>
Geography
Moscow Region
Sverdlovsk Region
Chelyabinsk Region
Topics
Construction industry
Regions
Transport
Persons
Khusnullin Marat
Kuyvashev Yevgeny
Savelyev Vitaly
Teksler Alexei
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 8, 2022, 16:35
Text versionEvents
Video address to the participants of the opening ceremony for the restored Saur-Mogila memorial complex
September 8, 2022
22:00
Video address to the participants of the opening ceremony for the restored Saur-Mogila memorial complex.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Today marks a momentous event for all of us – residents of Donbass, citizens of Russia, and the Great Patriotic War veterans – the opening of the newly restored Saur-Mogila memorial complex. Restoring it is all about reviving the memory of the exploits and heroes of the generation of victors, those who, without sparing themselves, liberated Donbass from Nazi invaders, bravely fought for the Donetsk steppes and the banks of the Mius River, as well as the height of the ancient Saur-Mogila, which was an important foothold during the Red Army’s offensive in the summer of 1943.
This military operation began at almost the same time as the Battle of Kursk and played a great role in reversing the course of the Great Patriotic War.
The Nazis built a strong defensive line in Donbass. The Soviet soldiers broke it during long bloody battles and, just like in the great battle near Prokhorovka, they won a major strategic victory here.
Saur-Mogila, as well as Sapun-Gora and Mamayev Kurgan are hallowed grounds for us, for which our fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers laid down their lives. That is why it was important to rebuild the memorial complex that was originally built in 1967.
It was paid for by miners and residents of nearby towns and villages and was rightfully referred to as the people’s monument and was revered and particularly loved. Families came here to mark Victory Day and the liberation of Donbass from the Nazis on September 8.
In 2014, calm and peaceful life in the region came to an end. The neo-Nazis unleashed another war here. Saur-Mogila became a battlefield, and the memorial was badly damaged.
The Donbass militia selflessly defended their native land and after bloody battles recaptured the height thus repeating the feat of our ancestors. New bas-reliefs were made on the newly rebuilt memorial to commemorate the modern generation of heroes.
It is gratifying to know that this majestic complex has been restored with the utmost care. Its original look has been preserved with the obelisk once again rising on the legendary height and the figure of a victorious Soviet soldier next to it.
We remember our next of kin – front-line soldiers and their comrades-in-arms, as well as tough homefront workers. We keep and restore memorials in their honour and we will never be able to understand and accept the desire to destroy memory that reminds us and tells us about the heroism of our ancestors, their courage, suffering and sacrifices.
Our hearts bleed when we see some countries demolish monuments to Soviet soldiers who gave their lives in the service of the freedom of their people, mock history, and cynically let down their own fathers, grandfathers, and great-grandfathers.
For Russia, this is unthinkable. We are the flesh of the flesh of our heroes. The reconstructed memorial to the defenders of Donbass, the courage of our soldiers, officers and militias is a warning to all who have renounced their ancestors and forgotten the lessons of history.
Friends,
I want to heartily thank everyone who participated in restoring the Saur-Mogila complex. I am aware that this idea originated several years ago. The credit for the fact that it has been made a reality goes to many people and public and community organisations.
Good luck to you and all the best.
Topics
Culture
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 8, 2022, 22:00
Text version