Events
Presentation of foreign ambassadors' letters of credence
Vladimir Putin received letters of credence from 24 newly-appointed foreign ambassadors. The ceremony was held in the St Alexander Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace.
September 20, 2022
12:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 8
Ceremony for presenting letters of credence. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
The President of Russia received the letters of credence from Daniel Ruben Castillos Gomez (Oriental Republic of Uruguay), Smail Benamara (People's Democratic Republic of Algeria), Nazih El Naggary (Arab Republic of Egypt), Olziisaikhany Enkhtuvshin (Mongolia), Maria Madalena Lobo Carvalho Fischer (Portuguese Republic), Emhemed Almaghrawi (State of Libya), Harouna Samake (Republic of Mali), Sarah Walsh (New Zealand), Vagharshak Harutiunyan (Republic of Armenia), Hector Isidro Arenas Neira (Republic of Colombia), Fredrick Ibrahim Kibuta (United Republic of Tanzania), Igor G. Bailen (Republic of the Philippines), Lilian Darii (Republic of Moldova), Momcilo Babic (Republic of Serbia), Jean-Baptiste Thiathie Tine (Republic of Senegal), Kypros Giorgallis (Republic of Cyprus), Ivan Vangu Ngimbi (Democratic Republic of the Congo), Moses Kawaaluuko Kizige (Republic of Uganda), Mohammed Elgazali Eltijani Sirraj (Republic of the Sudan), Mansour Al-Otaibi (State of Kuwait), Milan Raj Tuladhar (Nepal), Dmitry Krutoi (Belarus), Chang Ho-jin (Republic of Korea), and Jesus Rafael Salazar Velasquez (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela).
* * *
Speech at the presentation of letters of credence
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
I am happy to welcome you at the presentation of the letters of credence at the Kremlin and wholeheartedly congratulate you on the official beginning of your diplomatic mission.
You have been entrusted with an important and responsible mission: to promote the development of multifaceted relations between the countries you represent and Russia. We believe that you will be working to expand political dialogue, trade and economic ties and to deepen our cultural and humanitarian exchanges and contacts between our people.
We are sincerely interested in the successful work of the embassies you will head in these key spheres. The initiatives and proposals you may advance to strengthen mutual understanding among our nations will certainly receive the support of the Russian authorities, the public and the business communities of our country.
Colleagues,
You are working at a time when a radical transformation of the entire architecture of international relations has accelerated, when the development of a multipolar and more democratic and fair world order has entered its active phase.
The fact that the movement towards a multipolar world is the main strategic development line in global politics was reaffirmed at the SCO summit held in Samarkand a few days ago.
The SCO is a major regional organisation of the countries where more than a half of the world’s population live and where 25 percent of global GDP is created. The countries which firmly believe that the modern world must be polycentric and based on the generally recognised norms of international law and the principles of equal and indivisible security with the central coordinating role of the UN are members of the organisation I have mentioned, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
This approach is gaining more and more supporters, as proven by the growing interest in the SCO’s activities from many countries and interstate associations. Let me remind you that the issue of Iran obtaining the status of a full SCO member was resolved in Samarkand, the membership application from Belarus was approved, and eight more states became dialogue partners.
Regrettably, objective movement towards multipolarity has come up against resistance from those who are trying to preserve their dominant role in international affairs and to control everything – Latin America, Europe, Asia and Africa. I must say that the global leader managed quite well for a long time, but this cannot continue forever; it is impossible. I am talking about this outside the context of developments in Ukraine. In order to strengthen their position, illegitimate sanctions are introduced, and pressure is exerted in all areas, including, of course, on Russia. However, those who do this can see that their actions have negative consequences for themselves.
Unfortunately, this policy impacts innocent states as well, above all developing and the poorest countries. They were the first to suffer from the Western restrictions on the supply of Russian energy, food and fertiliser to world markets. In this context, it is absolutely cynical that even our offer to transfer 300,000 tonnes of Russian fertiliser blocked in European ports due to sanctions free of charge, I want to emphasise this, to countries in need still remains unanswered. Well, it is understandable that they do not want to let Russian companies earn money, but we want to give it away for free, at least give it away for free to countries in need; but no, nothing is being done, no answer.
As for Russia, it will not deviate from its sovereign course. As a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, we intend to further promote the unifying interstate agenda, contribute to the search for effective responses to the numerous challenges and threats of our time, and help settle acute regional conflicts. It is from these positions that Russia will speak at the opening of the 77th session of the UN General Assembly.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Today’s ceremony is attended by heads of twenty-four diplomatic missions. By tradition, I will briefly characterise the relations between Russia and every state you represent.
Russia and Uruguay have long-standing ties of friendship. In December we will mark the 165th anniversary of Russian-Uruguayan diplomatic relations, and we stand for the further development of cooperation in the economic, scientific, educational, cultural, humanitarian and other fields.
By the way, one of Uruguayan cities, San Javier, is inhabited mainly by descendants of Russian immigrants. We appreciate that people with Russian roots living there and elsewhere have the opportunity to preserve their ethnic and cultural identity and national traditions and speak their native language.
Russia’s cooperation with the Algerian People’s Democratic Republic is that of strategic partnership. In March we marked the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations, and invited President of Algeria Abdelmadjid Tebboune to visit Russia.
Algeria is Russia’s second largest trading partner in Africa in terms of trade volume. And trade and economic cooperation continues to develop actively, as well as our ties in other areas, including military-technical and cultural ties.
Russia supports Algeria’s balanced policy in regional and international affairs, and we will continue to work together to strengthen stability in the Middle East, North Africa and the Sahara-Sahel region.
We are consistently building up our friendly relations with Egypt in accordance with the fundamental Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Strategic Cooperation signed in 2018. We view Egypt as one of our most important partners in Africa and the Arab world. We are in constant contact with President Sisi.
Our intergovernmental commission is working actively, promoting the growth of trade, which increased by more than 40 percent in the first six months of this year. Large joint projects are being implemented, such as the construction of the El Dabaa nuclear power plant and the creation of a Russian industrial zone near the Suez Canal. There is a regular political dialogue and close foreign policy coordination.
In the presence of the distinguished ambassadors of Algeria and Egypt, as well as their colleagues from other African countries, I would like to remind you that the second Russia-Africa summit is scheduled to be held in St Petersburg in 2023. We hope that together we will be able to give a new impetus to the comprehensive development of mutually beneficial cooperation between Russia and the African states.
Just the other day, the leaders of Russia, Mongolia and China held a traditional trilateral meeting as part of the SCO summit in Samarkand. This format is very important, not only given the geographical location of our countries, but also the interest in implementing major joint projects, including in the transport and energy sectors.
Russia and Mongolia are advancing their traditional bilateral ties as well. Their official diplomatic relations go back 101 years. In early September, during talks with Prime Minister of Mongolia Oyun-Erdene, who took part in the Eastern Economic Forum, we reached a number of agreements aimed at expanding Russian-Mongolian economic cooperation in a number of areas.
As for Russian-Portuguese relations, they have been diverse and mutually beneficial for many years and even centuries. Now, bilateral political and economic dialogue and cooperation have been suspended for well-known reasons. We regret this and are confident that the situation will eventually improve.
We attach great importance to relations with Libya and are interested in a fair and lasting settlement of the protracted internal conflict in that country. Russia will continue to support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Libya and help the friendly Libyan people defend their right to a decent life, peace and security. As the internal situation in Libya stabilises, we look forward to resuming bilateral cooperation in various fields.
We welcome the intention of the leadership of the Republic of Mali to form a long-term strategic partnership with Russia and develop mutually beneficial ties.
During a detailed telephone conversation in August with Interim President Assimi Goïta, we agreed to continue joint efforts in countering international terrorism and religious extremism.
Russia will continue to provide the Malian people with comprehensive assistance and support, including the supply of necessary food, fertilisers and industrial goods. We will continue to cooperate in the humanitarian sphere, in particular, by expanding the number of places for Malian citizens who want to study at Russian universities.
In two days, Mali will celebrate its Independence Day. We sincerely congratulate all Malians on their national holiday.
Let me remind you that during World War II, New Zealand, as part of the coalition of allies, fought together with the Soviet Union against Nazism, against this misanthropic ideology. It is well known that the current state of affairs in bilateral relations cannot be considered satisfactory.
Armenia is our close friend and strategic ally. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the brotherly nation of Armenia and its leadership on tomorrow’s Independence Day. This year marks two significant anniversaries at once – the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries and the 25th anniversary of the fundamental Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance.
Russia and Armenia maintain an intensive political dialogue. This year alone, Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan and I met three times, most recently at the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok. In November, Yerevan will host the annual summit of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation.
Let me note that this organisation is taking measures due to the escalation in the Armenian-Azerbaijani border region. A special mission headed by the CSTO Secretary General was sent to the confrontation zone and instructed to draft proposals for the Collective Security Council based on their analysis of the state of affairs.
Let me emphasise that any conflict situations between states close to Russia cause us serious concern. We call on everyone to show restraint, adhere strictly to the ceasefire, and firmly follow the tripartite statements of the leaders of Russia, Azerbaijan and Armenia.
We believe that the key to resolving territorial disputes lies in professional joint work within the bilateral Commission for the Delimitation of the Armenian-Azerbaijani Border with advisory assistance from Russia.
Colombia is a promising partner for Russia in Latin America, with which we want to maintain friendly relations. We share the constructive resolve, expressed by President Petro in his recent statement, to build up our ties in trade, energy, infrastructure, science, technology, education and culture.
We will continue to consistently support international efforts within the framework of the UN Security Council towards a post-conflict settlement in Colombia in the interests of maintaining peace and national accord in that country and ensuring regional security and stability.
We will continue to strengthen traditionally friendly relations with the United Republic of Tanzania, including in promising spheres such as peaceful nuclear research, transport, energy and tourism.
We welcome the efforts of Tanzania to settle problems on the African continent. We will cooperate on a broad range of current issues on the regional and international agenda.
The history of Russian-Philippine relations includes implemented projects in various spheres. The conditions are in place for boosting our trade and cooperation in energy, space exploration, information technology, agriculture and tourism. We are willing to work together with our partners and hope that the new leadership of the Philippines share this approach.
We are convinced that the development of cooperation between Russia and Moldova, which is historically close to us, on the principles of pragmatism and mutual benefit meets the fundamental interests of our nations. Russia has always acted as the guarantor of the Transnistrian settlement. Incidentally, our actions in the sphere of energy security strictly comply with all our agreements that are based on the proposals of Moldova.
Relations of strategic partnership between Russia and Serbia are based on traditions of friendship and cultural, spiritual and historical affinity between our fraternal people.
We regularly discuss key aspects of the further development of cooperation during face-to-face meetings and telephone conversations with President Vucic. We appreciate the desire of our Serbian friends to pursue a balanced and independent policy on the international stage, and we will continue to work together to deepen our political dialogue and expand interaction in the economy, trade, science, technology, culture and education.
Acting within the framework of international law and relying above all on UN Security Council Resolution 1244, we will continue to provide all-round assistance to our friends in upholding the legitimate rights and interests of Serbia and protecting its state sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Senegal is one of Russia's important African partners. Diplomatic relations were established 60 years ago, and our countries have since been successfully interacting in politics and other areas, including trade and the economy.
President Sall of Senegal and I held productive talks in the city of Sochi this summer. Since Senegal chairs the African Union, we discussed strengthening stability and security throughout the African continent and preparations for the upcoming Russian-African summit.
Relations with the Republic of Cyprus have always relied on the cultural and spiritual commonality and the traditions of friendship between our nations. The Russian Federation has always been and continues to be in favour of a comprehensive, just and viable settlement of the Cyprus problem based on UN Security Council resolutions.
We are interested in expanding cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo in politics, trade and international affairs. We will continue to provide assistance to our Congolese partners in order to improve the socioeconomic situation in that country.
As a permanent member of the UN Security Council and a member of the Group of Friends of the Great Lakes Region, Russia will continue to contribute to the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the region as a whole.
Russia's relations with Uganda, one of Russia's reliable partners in Africa, are friendly and mutually beneficial. I am positive that our ties in the political, trade and economic fields will continue to develop successfully, including in new promising areas, such as the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
Russia has long-standing relations of friendship and cooperation with Sudan and maintains a meaningful dialogue at various levels, which expands business cooperation in geology and subsoil use, as well as food supplies. In August, the seventh meeting of the Russian-Sudanese intergovernmental commission was held in Moscow. We look forward to seeing all the agreements reached there put into action.
Russia has consistently advocated the speedy normalisation of the internal political situation in Sudan and supports the efforts of the Sudanese leadership aimed at getting there.
We stand for the further strengthening of constructive cooperation with the State of Kuwait. We are ready to continue close foreign policy coordination not only in Middle East affairs, but on other international priorities as well. We see untapped potential in expanding trade, economic and investment cooperation.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the leadership of Nepal and all Nepalese people on the national holiday celebrated today – Constitution Day – and wish you success and prosperity. Russia's relations with Nepal have always been based on mutual understanding and friendship. We hope this will be the case as we go forward.
Fraternal Belarus is our closest ally and strategic partner. This year, we are marking the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations. The two countries are developing multisectoral integration cooperation and are consistently implementing the fundamental Treaty on the Creation of the Union State, including the 28 specific programmes that were coordinated in developing this treaty.
We are working on major trade and investment projects aimed at further improving the wellbeing of Russian and Belarusian citizens.
We are countering the challenges and threats to the security of our countries together. We are actively cooperating in the CSTO, the EAEU and the CIS. As I have mentioned, a decision was made at the recent summit in Samarkand to start the procedure for the accession of the Republic of Belarus to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. We will contribute to the full integration of Belarus into this authoritative regional organisation.
We have amassed substantial, diverse and mutually beneficial experience in cooperation with the Republic of Korea. Importantly, we are cooperating on the situation on the Korean Peninsula with a view to reaching a comprehensive political and diplomatic settlement and enhancing regional security and stability.
Venezuela is a strategic partner and reliable ally in Latin America and the world as a whole. We maintain a constant dialogue with President Maduro. The positions of Russia and Venezuela are close or identical on the main issues on the international agenda.
We intend to continue promoting bilateral cooperation in all areas, primarily energy, industry, infrastructure, transport, and pharmaceuticals.
We support the Venezuelan government’s efforts to stabilise the domestic situation and protect their national sovereignty. We denounce the illegal sanctions introduced against the republic.
Ladies and gentlemen,
I described Russia’s relations with the states you represent in a very broad outline. I hope that with your participation these relations will develop dynamically and be filled with new, mutually advantageous projects for the benefit of our nations and in the interests of international security and stability. I sincerely wish you success in this endeavor.
And, of course, I hope your work in Russia will be interesting for you professionally and will help you learn more about our country, its history and culture.
Allow me to wish you all the best. Good luck.
Thank you for your attention.
Unfortunately, pandemic rates, which are on the rise again and an increase in the number of infected people will not allow us to communicate more thoroughly and closely, but this does not change our attitude as you start your work. I would like to emphasise again that we wish you all the best.
Good luck, my best wishes, Thank you.
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 20, 2022, 12:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with top managers of defence industry companies
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with top managers of defence industry companies. Meeting to discuss current measures to meet Defence Ministry demand and to implement import substitution programmes. Vladimir Putin also congratulated weapons manufacturers on their professional day, celebrated in Russia on September 19.
September 20, 2022
14:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
6 of 6
Meeting with top managers of defence industry companies.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Yesterday we marked Gunsmith Day, and I would like to extend my wholehearted greetings to you and all personnel of the national defence industry on their professional day and to thank them for their diligent work and commitment to the responsible and very important cause to which they have devoted their lives, to serving Russia and our people.
Thanks to the talents and energy of our designers, engineers and workers and their dedication to the tasks facing them, our defence industry is making a huge contribution to strengthening national security and to upgrading and enhancing the combat capability of the army and navy. At the same time, it has always held a solid position on the global arms markets. Over the first six months of this year, our industry has supplied products worth over $6 billion to our foreign partners despite the circumstances everyone is well aware of. High-tech civilian products, which enjoy demand in Russia and abroad, are being manufactured in increasing quantities.
Once again, I congratulate all Russian weapons-makers on their professional day and wish you good health and new successes.
Colleagues,
Given the circumstances, challenges, and threats that our country is facing, the defence companies are operating intensively, and their employees are acting quickly to address unconventional challenges, to rearrange production processes and to improve quality based on actual combat experience. Your representatives go to the front lines – I want to note this and thank them for this. This transcends professional responsibility and is, to a certain extent, heroism, which is making a vast contribution to improving the military equipment that is being used in the combat operations.
Therefore, during our meeting, I propose focusing on the specific and most pressing organisational, financial and technical issues. Of course, we will start by discussing the supplies of weapons, equipment and ammunition to the forces, primarily the units and subunits in the special military operation.
I will note at the outset that the Russian weapons used in the operation have proven highly effective. This primarily concerns aviation, high-precision long-range missiles, aviation weapons, rocket and artillery, and armoured vehicle arsenal, to name a few. They are used to destroy military infrastructure, command posts, and enemy materiel, and to attack nationalist units, while minimising losses among personnel.
I would also like to point out the fact that our equipment is performing well in the standoff with Western weapons. You know that virtually all stocks from NATO arsenals were thrown in to support the Kiev regime. This means that we must and can study these arsenals – that is, the equipment that is being used against us – and break new ground in building up our capabilities, and, based on our experience, improve, where necessary, our equipment and our weapons. This is a natural process which we must use by all means and do so as quickly and efficiently as possible.
I would like to remind you in this context that this year I have resolved to deliver additional weapons and equipment to the armed forces and, consequently, to allocate funds for acquisition and maintenance. Production capacities must be increased and, if necessary, modernised at several defence enterprises. Much has been done to attain this goal.
For example, the following decisions were taken to ensure the uninterrupted production and repair of weapons and equipment: contract and pre-contract procedures have been simplified considerably, the timeframe for signing state contracts with a sole provider and the relevant pricing procedure have been reduced, and the amount of prepayment has been increased.
I would like to note that Promsvyazbank has reaffirmed the terms for low-interest loans for the pre-schedule delivery of weapons. In addition, labour laws have been amended to allow the heads of defence enterprises and design bureaus to authorise overtime pay for designers, engineers and workers.
Measures have been taken in connection with manufacturing optimisation. I will not list them now because all of you are well aware of them. This has been done on your recommendation.
Defence industry organisations must ensure the provision of the necessary weapons, equipment and munitions to the armed forces as soon as possible.
We must also ensure the timely and full provision of modern Russian-made components, parts, units and materials to defence industry companies. The defence industry is the sphere where all import substitution programmes must be implemented without fail. This may not be so important or even necessary in other areas, because we do not need one hundred percent import substitution. But we must do it in this area. Therefore, production capacities must be increased without delay, equipment must be used to the fullest, technological cycles must be streamlined, and production deadlines must be reduced without hurting quality.
I would like to ask the heads of defence industry enterprises to report on the measures they are taking to satisfy the Defence Ministry’s requirements. Of course, I also expect you to make practical proposals, as you did at our previous meetings on the development of the defence industry as a whole.
Thank you. Let us start working.
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 20, 2022, 14:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Member of Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina Milorad Dodik
Vladimir Putin hosted in the Kremlin Serbian Member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina Milorad Dodik.
September 20, 2022
17:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Serbian Member of Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Milorad Dodik.
Beginning of the meeting with Member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina Milorad Dodik
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I would like to reiterate what I said at the beginning: you will have elections in your country soon, and I wish you success. I hope that the results will strengthen the position of the patriotic forces in the country, allowing us to continue to develop productive and mutually beneficial cooperation.
Member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina Milorad Dodik (retranslated): Mr President, thank you very much for your kind wishes. Thank you for inviting me to be here today. This is our second meeting this year.
I bring you greetings from my people, from the Republika Srpska, and gratitude for your attention and support at the multilateral level, primarily at the UN Security Council, your understanding of the specific circumstances in which we work, and your commitment to preserving the Dayton Agreement, which has preserved Bosnia and Herzegovina to this day. On the other hand, we also have people who want to be a vehicle for changing the rules and the international system. It is important that we have friends who understand our specific situation.
The elections will take place on October 2. I have put forward my candidacy for the office of President of the Republika Srpska, and now I am a member of the Presidium of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am convinced that we will fare well. The polls are saying there will be no problem, and we hope that the result will be good.
I would like to say that our meetings are always very important for me. We have previously discussed some issues. I would like to say that I remain committed to continue advancing our cooperation, which is very important for us, because we are a small community, and the fact is that we, most importantly, stay in communication with you, which is what makes our positions stronger.
Several days ago – I would like to tell you, brag about it, in fact – we had the opportunity to make sure that Bosnia and Herzegovina play a friendly match with your football team in St Petersburg on November 19. Our people have secured this decision for the Bosnia and Herzegovina national football team, and we hope that we will keep this date, November 19, even though one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not want it. In any case, we accomplished this in the current circumstances.
Vladimir Putin: Sport should unite, not divide people, and I hope that the sporting event that you mentioned will play its role in promoting sports and relations between people.
I want to emphasise once again that we know you as a friend of our country. I am glad to see you and to have the opportunity to discuss with you the situation in the region and bilateral relations.
<…>
See also
Meeting with Member of Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Milorad Dodik
June 18, 2022
Geography
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 20, 2022, 17:50
Text versionEvents
Gala event on 100th anniversary of Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachayevo-Circassia
Vladimir Putin spoke before the participants of a ceremony marking the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Adygea, the Republic of Kabardino-Balkaria and the Republic of Karachayevo-Circassia
September 20, 2022
19:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Gala event on 100th anniversary of Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachayevo-Circassia. Photo: Konstantin Zavrazhin
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Residents of the Republic of Adygea, the Republic of Kabardino-Balkaria, and the Republic of Karachayevo-Circassia,
Please accept my sincere and heartfelt congratulations on the 100th anniversary of your republics. This is a big and significant date for you and for our country, for all of Russia.
The creation of autonomous entities in 1922 was an important event in the history and life of the peoples of the three regions and a significant step forward in the history of our state as a common home for people of different ethnicities who are united by common values and aspirations and a common patriotic responsibility for the future of our great and vast Motherland.
The decades that followed convincingly proved that this decision was correct and far-sighted, as was another decision that had been made long before that; I am referring to the truly fateful choice of the peoples of modern Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachayevo-Cirkassia on rapprochement with the Russian state.
This new status contributed to the rise of the economy and the social sphere in the autonomous regions, the preservation and promotion of the distinctive traditions and the rich cultural and spiritual heritage of all the peoples who live here, and opened up broad opportunities to receive an education and to fulfill their professional potential.
The people of Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia have made a priceless contribution to the strengthening and development of our enormous country. Shoulder to shoulder with people of other ethnicities, they were building and creating, reaching achievements in science and culture, overcoming together sharp turns of history and honestly and courageously sharing the difficulties and trials that befell them – together with other people in the Soviet Union.
Your fellow citizens fully displayed their courage and bravery in the harsh years of the Great Patriotic War. Thousands of fearless warriors – faithful sons and daughters of Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia – volunteered to go to the front lines where they fought in guerrilla units. Valiantly fighting the Nazis, they ruined the enemy’s plans and proved that the freedom-loving Caucasus could not be conquered. They upheld the freedom and independence of our common and great Motherland.
The names and achievements of your fellow countrymen – Admiral Arseny Golovko, tank brigade commander Kharun Bogatyrev, political instructor Khusen Andrukhayev and many other heroes – have become striking examples of true patriotism and courage.
The grateful memory of our people will always hold close those who selflessly worked for victory on the home front, who denied themselves the basic necessities, instead, sending them to the front: food, animals, horses, clothes and shoes, who produced ammunition and took care of the wounded.
Today, we are addressing the warmest words of gratitude and a low bow to the generation of victors, to the veterans living in the republics. The sons and daughters of Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia are now courageously, heroically fulfilling their military duty by protecting Russia. They are worthy of your achievements, dear veterans.
Friends,
In the difficult 1990s, the peoples of Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia strived to save peace and stability in their land, to ensure the necessary balance of national and regional interests, preserve inter-ethnic balance and inter-religious accord as the main foundation for stable development in the new, 21st century.
Today, Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia are also confidently resolving the challenges facing them and are demonstrating positive dynamics. All of Russia’s regions are increasing industrial and agricultural production and are building up their capacities for processing and storing agricultural products. They are increasing the use of advanced technology. The positions of small and medium-sized businesses are growing stronger. Naturally, all these successes are having a positive impact on regional incomes.
The measures to support businesses and economic sectors taken by the federal and regional government bodies have seriously encouraged economic growth in these three regions. The state will continue helping its own domestic producers.
Positive trends in your regions include active housing construction and good indicators for gas distribution. These figures have already reached almost 95 percent in the Republic of Adygea; 89 percent in Kabardino-Balkaria and over 70 percent in Karachay-Cherkessia.
I want to emphasise that today you have every opportunity to unlock the rich potential of your republics and ensure the growth of key economic indicators.
To achieve this, it is necessary to continue improving the quality and thus the competitiveness of manufactured products, encourage business activity and help create new, modern jobs.
It is important to attract additional investment to the regions for implementing large long-term projects, primarily in mining and processing of mineral resources, in energy, construction and agriculture.
The implementation of national and regional projects is giving a big boost to major changes in all areas of life in your regions. This year alone, the federal and republican budgets have allocated almost 12.5 billion rubles for these projects in Kabardino-Balkaria, about 9 billion rubles in Adygea and 7 billion in Karachay-Cherkessia. These funds are being spent to build and rebuild schools and kindergartens, upgrade transport facilities and healthcare institutions, and improve cities and villages.
The development of tourism in your regions is a promising areas. Majestic mountains with perpetual ice and the purest rivers, breathtakingly beautiful and diverse nature, ancient history and culture all inspire sincere admiration, and it is only natural that tourism is steadily on the rise in all three republics.
Indeed, much has been done to develop tourism in the past few years. For example, the Elbrus resort and the nearby tourist centres with excellent roads and paths for high-altitude tourism and mountaineering are being actively developed in Kabardino-Balkaria.
Karachay-Cherkessia has created the all-season resort Arkhyz, which has become one of Russia’s most popular alpine ski resorts, from scratch, while Adygea is carrying out a large investment project on building the Lagonaki all-season mountain eco-resort.
We need to continue creating cutting-edge tourist infrastructure in the republics and make vacations in your regions comfortable and affordable for people.
And, of course, developing the rich palette of folk culture and traditions is of special importance in Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia. The people of your republics appreciate beauty and talent and are famous for great achievements in culture and creative endeavours. Just look at your regular concerts and art festivals, guest performances by theatre, folk singing and dance companies and exhibits of folk crafts.
They are always held with great success and contribute to the development and mutual enrichment of Russia’s cultural traditions. They give people a joy of communication and bring them together, educate young people in the spirit of respect for each other.
And, of course, it is necessary to devote priority attention to issues of civil order, stability and accord in your republics where people from the most diverse ethnic origins and religions have lived since ancient times. This is very important in general and in particular for such a complicated territory as yours.
It is important that regional authorities and political forces, religious associations and public organisations in your republics hold a firm and consistent position on this issue. They are doing much to develop the traditions of neighbourliness and friendship between people of different nationalities, the traditions that your ancient land – the land that its people and all of Russia are rightly proud of – has long been famous for.
Friends,
There is a famous highland proverb: you are happy if you have a true friend. Loyalty, unity and friendship among the peoples of Russia are a source of power and the most durable foundation for common wellbeing in the future.
I would like to congratulate you and all the people of Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia once again on your anniversary.
I am sure you will do your utmost for the effective socioeconomic development of your regions and for stronger stability and accord.
Allow me to wish you good health and success. Happy holiday!
Thank you very much for your attention. 
Geography
Republic of Adygeya
Kabardino-Balkarian Republic
Karachayevo-Circassian Republic
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 20, 2022, 19:35
Text versionEvents
Gala meeting on 220th anniversary of Russia’s Justice Ministry
Vladimir Putin spoke at the gala meeting on the 220th anniversary of the Ministry of Justice of Russia.
September 20, 2022
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 4
Gala meeting on the 220th anniversary of the Ministry of Justice of Russia. With Minister of Justice Konstantin Chuychenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Chuichenko, Employees and veterans of the Ministry of Justice,
I am happy to welcome you at the gala meeting on the 220th anniversary of the Ministry of Justice of Russia.
I would like to congratulate all those present in this hall and your colleagues on this significant and historical date, and to congratulate all those for whom the work in the ministry, its central office, territorial bodies and subordinate agencies is a profession and a calling.
Established by a manifesto of Alexander I, the Ministry of Justice has become an integral and very important part of Russia’s state system, a reliable bulwark of legality, legal order, education, and development of respect for law in society.
From the very start, the ministry was charged with very responsible tasks on developing and upgrading national legislation, ensuring the functionality of the courts, the Prosecutor’s Office and, after the 1864 judicial reform, of the notary, magistrates and the jury system. In effect, the ministry started developing and implementing the legal policy of the Russian state.
The Ministry of Justice fully met these high requirements, and promoted key reforms, playing the leading role in systematising and codifying the law. It monitored the legal implications and uniformity of law enforcement practice in the vast expanses of our country, thereby facilitating the strengthening of Russia and its development as a world power with a legal system that contemporaries considered one of the most effective and humane in the world.
The best ministerial employees used the power of law to advance the rights and freedoms of the people and to protect them against injustice and arbitrariness. Their work served as an example of top-level professionalism and honest selfless service to the Fatherland, and laid down the wonderful traditions of the Russian legal school that were honoured and developed by successive generations of lawyers.
In the 20th century, the Ministry of Justice officials conscientiously fulfilled their duty and honestly shared all trials with the people. During the most challenging periods of the Great Patriotic War, they engaged in painstaking study, analysis and systematisation of law and introduced important regulatory principles and norms.
Three years after the Great Victory, in 1948, new legislation and codes were published. In 1957, upon the initiative of the Ministry of Justice of the RSFSR, one of the fundamental principles of criminal justice – the presumption of innocence – was made part of judicial practice.
Notably, during the pivotal 1990s, the Ministry of Justice made a significant contribution to the revival of strong state power when the fundamental principles underlying the construction of a social state were codified, and the principles for forming our country’s single legal field and guaranteeing the rights and legitimate interests of citizens were introduced. All of that led to a sweeping reform of Russian legislation and, most importantly, to our country’s confident advancement along the path of building a rule-of-law democratic state.
Colleagues,
Today, the Ministry of Justice is in charge of over 20 key areas and two large subordinate federal services: those of corrections and bailiffs. Constant improvement of the legislation, strengthening of the foundations of statehood and, importantly, better legal protection of our citizens largely depend on the Ministry officials’ competence.
Maintaining the unity of Russia's legal space is crucial. The Ministry has done a lot to bring regional legislation in line with federal legislation. We must continue to work on these issues systematically and consistently.
I would like to note in this context that it was decided last December that the Ministry of Justice would coordinate the work on systematizing the legal acts of government bodies at all levels. This will result in the creation and maintenance of the state digital resource for legal acts.
Clearly, the advantages of digitisation must find wider application in our work with non-profit organisations registered by the Ministry of Justice. All constructive initiatives from civil society must receive your support.
A range of convenient tools for non-profit organisations already exists, such as electronic financial reporting. At the same time, it is important to promote the transparent and open operation of non-profit organisations, along with regulating their corporate management.
One unconditional priority is the development of the system of free legal aid. Relevant state legal offices, where this aid is offered to people systemically, are already functioning in 32 regions of the Russian Federation. I hope these legal aid offices will be set up everywhere, in each region.
And, of course, it is important to ensure the quality of legal services. The Ministry of Justice was charged with this task, among others.
People must be given the opportunity to address tested and qualified lawyers online. This is a convenient, modern and reliable form of interaction and should be introduced into practice as soon as possible.
I would also like to note the role of the ministry in developing notary services. Many important federal laws have been adopted in this area in the past few years. For instance, it is now possible to perform notary services online and remotely.
Another key task is to develop forensic expert activities, including the creation of new expert laboratories in the regions. Their task is to upgrade the quality and speed of judicial expert assessment, thereby ensuring quicker and better protection of the rights and interests of individuals and companies in legal proceedings.
The ministry must continuously monitor the work of the Federal Service for the Execution of Sentences (FSES). It is particularly important to draft and introduce a general layout for penal institutions. This will make it possible to locate these institutions rationally, in part, move them outside residential areas, merge them and create up-to-date conditions for FSES employees, lawyers and representatives of public organisations.
We need to continue working to establish correctional centres in cooperation with the regions of the federation and the business community.
Convicts will serve their sentences partly through penal labour and receive a salary for it. They will receive money, and thus, will be able to pay for damages. All this will help reduce reoffending and promote crime prevention with the general humanisation and liberalisation of our legislation.
A topical task for the Federal Bailiff Service is to continue the digital conversion of the execution of judicial acts. This format is modern and convenient for all parties to the executive process. It makes the work of bailiffs more transparent and simplifies the process of presenting the required documents.
We will then need to create a uniform state registry of enforcement procedures. It will allow bailiffs to act quicker, relying on the information from the state information system on state and municipal payments.
Colleagues,
The Ministry of Justice enjoys broad powers and has great judicial, expert, analytical and personnel potential, and we need to make the most of it.
I am sure you realize the scale and complexity of the tasks facing you and will do everything you can for the successful, effective accomplishment of these goals in the interests of our citizens and for all of Russia.
Today’s correctional department employee must be a professional who strictly abides by the law and is a model of personal integrity. This is a source of respect and trust in you and your work in society.
Allow me to congratulate you on your anniversary day once again.
I would like to thank the honoured veterans of the Ministry of Justice for their tangible contribution to strengthening Russia’s legal system and its current employees for the extremely important work that you perform in good faith.
Let me wish you every success.
Thank you.
Topics
Civil service
Fight against crime
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 20, 2022, 17:30
Text version