Events
Expanded Interior Ministry Board meeting
The President took part in the annual expanded meeting of the Russian Interior Ministry Board.
February 17, 2022
14:05
Moscow
1 of 6
Extended meeting of Russian Interior Ministry Board.
Participants in the meeting summarised the results of the work of internal affair authorities in 2021 and outlined priority areas of activity for 2022.
Minister of the Interior Vladimir Kolokoltsev
delivered the main report.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades,
Today, at the expanded meeting of the board you will analyse the ministry’s work in the key areas and discuss short-term and long-term goals.
I want to say right away that despite the complex situation due to the coronavirus pandemic – it has been a significant load on the ministry in general, and the minister has just reported that almost half of those who were going to attend today’s meeting are sick – nevertheless, the entire system of the Ministry of the Interior has been functioning in a stable and reliable way.
Thus, public order was maintained at a high level during elections to the State Duma and regional governments. The agency’s employees did their job in a well-managed and competent way in the course of the national census, a large-scale project, as well as during major international events.
I would like to note that last year, we saw a continued downward trend in serious and grave crimes, including those with the use of weapons. The crime rate in public places has also gone down and there are positive trends in a number of other important areas.
I would like to thank the Interior Ministry staff for their diligent work, professionalism, commitment and courage.
Colleagues,
I will elaborate on the most important tasks you will have to address this year and in the longer term.
Of course, an active crackdown on crime is our top priority. Let me remind you that last year the Federal Law On Police was amended to expand the authority of police officers, including the right to immediately inspect residential premises and vehicles upon receiving reports of incidents. We need to use these opportunities effectively to quickly solve crimes without delay, while – I want to emphasise this – guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of citizens.
You know that human rights organisations have always paid attention to these amendments. We have agreed with the proposal of the Minister and with your proposals on the fact that work in hot pursuit is very important to solve crimes and for the effective operation of the law enforcement system in general. However, the fears of human rights activists have certain grounds. I am asking you to keep this in mind, and ensure and guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens.
Generally, I would like to once again note the task to radically improve the crime detection rate. According to last year’s results, there has not been any significant progress here so far. This means that we need consistent and more effective work on all types of crimes that pose a threat to our society.
These threats include new challenges related to crime seeping into the sphere of information technologies and communications. The number of crimes in this sphere is growing annually. Domestic companies suffer damage from the actions of cybercriminals. And more of our people are facing a loss of funds and savings, with irreparable moral damage, which evokes a strong public response. Pensioners, large families and people with disabilities fall victim to criminals. Nothing is sacred to these people; their only goal is to steal money.
I believe it is necessary to significantly improve the procedure for interaction between the Ministry of the Interior and financial organisations, telecommunications operators, and other structures in the digital space and in telecommunications. In general, more coordinated work of the law enforcement agencies, corresponding state bodies and regulators, as well as the expert community and businesses is required to strengthen cybersecurity.
It is necessary to be proactive, including in updating the regulatory framework and strengthening the technical capabilities of the Ministry of the Interior, because cybertechnology is developing rapidly, new risks are emerging, and it is necessary to prevent them and not to let criminals feed off technological progress.
In this context, our next big task is to efficiently prevent crime. Here we also have new opportunities. For example, the decision to grant the police the right to issue an official warning to potential criminals and violators of the law has played a positive role. Last year, about 111,000 warnings were issued, which helped reduce the crime rate, including domestic crimes. We must continue to actively use this tool for prevention.
Let me note that local police officers traditionally play a major role in crime detection and prevention. They work, as they say, on the ground, and know the problems of the area where they work and the people living there, which often helps not only to find a criminal promptly, but also to prevent the crime itself.
Let me note that the 100th anniversary of the local police service is drawing nearer. I would like to call the attention of the Ministry’s leadership to the need to hold anniversary events, but also to make additional decisions aimed at strengthening precincts and improving the work conditions and social protection of employees.
I would like to elaborate on crime prevention among young people, among youth. Protecting the younger generation from crime is an essential task for the development of Russia and its future.
Over the last few years, the number of crimes committed by youth has fallen, but this is by no means a reason for complacency. Armed attacks at educational institutions, cases of violence against children, their involvement in drug trafficking and extremist actions – all these incidents (and, unfortunately, they are not isolated) indicate that your work, including on prevention, should be more efficient.
Here you should look for new, up-to-date approaches. You cannot follow the standard routine; you need to see the problems and difficulties of each young person. In this sense, I believe it is important to consolidate the efforts of all government bodies and all units of the prevention system to create a single state system for continuous social support for adolescents prone to delinquency.
Furthermore, a serious signal that requires comprehensive analysis is the growth of crimes associated with extremism. In 2021, their number increased by more than a quarter. It is important for the relevant units of the Interior Ministry in cooperation with your colleagues from other law-enforcement bodies and special services to timely assess the risks of potential extremist manifestations and develop on this basis effective preventive measures.
Special attention must be paid to efforts to neutralise attempts by extremists and all kinds of radicals to use the internet (we are all aware of this and keep talking about it) and other modern means of fanning ethnic, religious and social strife. I believe today the Interior Ministry system has all the powers it needs for this.
In addition, it is necessary to more actively involve the media, civil society, youth associations and representatives of our traditional religions in preventing extremism. By public organisations, I mean the entire palette: youth and sports organisations, for one; we have many of these. We must simply look at what can be used and how in order to find an effective solution to this truly national goal.
Successfully combatting extremism is directly related to resolving migration challenges. Naturally, we are happy to welcome all those who come to us to study, work and simply live, those who abide by Russian laws and respect our culture and traditions. Such foreigners, and primarily our compatriots, must have the opportunity to get all the necessary documents freely and without red tape.
However, it is essential to take the toughest possible measures against illegal migration and the activities of the criminal groups that build their illicit business on it. As for any manifestations of extremism, violations of law and illegal work, this should serve as grounds for a rapid resolution on the deportation of such people from Russia and on banning them from entering in the future. It is essential not to let up for a moment in this environment.
I would like you to consider these requirements in developing measures aimed at simplifying procedures for receiving citizenship, permanent or temporary residence and the right to work in Russia, and participation in the federal program for the voluntary relocation of compatriots, to which I will return, in conformity with all the requirements of Russian law.
You know that quite recently, on February 10 of this year, an Interdepartmental Commission of the Security Council of Russia on improving state migration policy was established in this country. I expect its work to enhance national security in migration and to help regulate these processes so that they do not create risks and threats but serve the goals of our national socio-economic development.
Colleagues,
New serious requirements are being placed on traffic police units. It must be admitted that there is more order on the roads now, thanks to the adopted measures, including under the Road Safety project. I know that criticism of these divisions is traditional and eternal, but let us evaluate this work without bias; after all, there is more order, as the objective figures show.
For example, 3.1 percent fewer road accidents happened in 2021. It is a small number, but still. Also, 5.8 percent fewer were killed, although still a lot of people are killed in these accidents, and 4.2 percent fewer people were injured, compared to the previous period. After all, these are real people with real lives, and their health and well-being matter.
However, as I have said, many are still killed in road accidents, including many children, unfortunately. Mortality is high in accidents caused by drink drivers, as well as in collisions with pedestrians.
It is important to continue working on improving what is considered acceptable behaviour on the road. I know that the Ministry of the Interior has great experience in cooperating with public and volunteer associations. You must further develop this partnership and make irresponsible and obnoxious behaviour on the road unacceptable in society.
As before, more focus should go to removing criminal elements from the economy and combatting corruption. I would like to repeat once again: any inspections or actions by the Ministry of the Interior related to businesses must be justified; they must not create obstacles for businesses or harm companies that do business honestly, create jobs, and duly pay wages.
I would like to ask you to make more active use of the new capabilities created by the law adopted last February in the fight against corruption. It makes it possible to expand the range of persons who can be held accountable for malfeasance, as you know. Your task is to prevent embezzlement of budget funds, as well as cases of criminal bankruptcies and illegal redistribution of or encroachment on property and assets.
Finally, it is important to step up efforts to combat drug trafficking, including additional measures to promote cooperation between Ministry units and their colleagues from the Federal Security Service and the Federal Taxation Service, and to improve international antidrug cooperation, above all within BRICS, the CSTO, and the SCO.
Comrades,
The goal of the state is to ensure that people working in law enforcement can make a decent living. I know, of course, that there still are a lot of unresolved problems in this sphere, which the Minister and I discuss constantly. Nevertheless, significant funding is allocated to equip units with up-to-date vehicles and communications, as well as new weapons and special equipment. We will certainly increase social benefits for employees, including the indexation of salaries and pensions.
I am confident that the employees of the Interior Ministry understand their colossal responsibility for our society and the entire country, and that they will, of course, do everything possible to perform these tasks at the highest level.
Thank you for your attention. I wish you all the best in life and service.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Mr Kolokoltsev, colleagues,
To wrap up for this part of your work, I would like to mention a few things that you are already well aware of. However, it will be useful to mention them again.
The Interior Ministry system has always been considered, and indeed has always functioned, as the key link in this country’s law enforcement network.
The Interior Minister and I spoke in our opening remarks about the Ministry’s areas of responsibility. They cover practically all aspects of society and the state. There is not a single area that can be said to lie outside the Ministry’s responsibility. Naturally, people largely judge the state’s performance on the quality of the Interior Ministry’s work. You and I know all about this.
But I would like to draw your attention to one aspect of this issue. It is perfectly clear and obvious. I would just like to ask you not to forget that people’s lives depend on the quality of your work. This is the bottom line and must always be the focus.
Thank you very much. I wish you all the best. I wish you success.
Topics
Fight against crime
Law enforcement agencies
Persons
Kolokoltsev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 17, 2022, 14:05
Text versionEvents
Meeting on economic issues
The President held a meeting on economic issues, via videoconference.
February 17, 2022
18:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 5
During the meeting on economic issues (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
, Deputy Prime Minister and Chief of the Government Executive Office Dmitry Grigorenko
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
and Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
We are starting a series of meetings to prepare this year’s Address to the Federal Assembly. This is a large, complex and substantive job, which needs to take into account a number of important aspects. This is a team project of course, because although the President is the one who announces the decisions we have prepared, says what needs to be done and how to achieve our goals, it is our joint task.
I suggest we begin by analysing the overall macroeconomic picture and consider an updated economic forecast for the next three years. We will discuss their impact on the implementation of current government projects and programmes, as well as on the launch of new initiatives.
I must say that the Russian economy fared well last year amid the difficult global situation. According to the Ministry of Economic Development, the country's GDP grew by 4.6 percent, which means the national economy not just fully compensated for the 2020 decline, but exceeded the pre-crisis level.
Unlike many other leading economies, Russia has normalised its budgetary policy. Last year, the federal budget ended with a surplus equal to 0.4 percent of GDP. As a reminder, a year earlier, we ran a 3.8 percent deficit.
The country’s non-oil and gas revenues amounted to 16.2 trillion rubles last year. Fourth quarter revenue exceeded the forecast the Government had enclosed with the federal budget law by more than 20 percent. This positive trend has continued into this year: in January, non-oil and gas revenues were 27 percent higher than a year earlier.
Let me emphasise that with steady revenues, we will be able to address current problems and meet targets, as well as take new, additional measures to develop the economy and infrastructure, to strengthen the social sphere and support Russian families.
At the same time, it is important that budget planning be systematic. We need to continue to apply the budget rule – I am making a point of saying this to emphasise – to ensure a balance of public finances and the stability of key macroeconomic indicators.
I would like to specifically point out that inflation has recently become a serious challenge for most countries. In Russia, consumer prices accelerated by 8.7 percent year-on-year in January, which is noticeably above the target. However, the situation in the so-called developed market economies is not much better either. For comparison, in the United States, inflation reached 7.5 percent in January, much higher than market expectations, and in the eurozone, 5.1 percent from a year ago. This is a serious challenge for those countries.
Nevertheless, we need to take effective measures to reduce inflation in our country. Both the Government and the Central Bank should certainly play a significant role here, with the latter maintaining a responsible approach to the implementation of its monetary policy.
It is important to coordinate the efforts of the Central Bank and the Government and do so, of course, with due regard for the Central Bank’s statutory authority and the effect this might have on business and investment activities; these joint efforts should further the objective of removing external and internal factors behind inflation.
Rising prices primarily eat into people’s income, having an adverse effect on families’ well-being. Due to additional budget revenue, we have taken a decision to provide targeted support to the most vulnerable among us. We have made one-time payments to pensioners and families with schoolchildren and have additionally adjusted pensions, the minimum wage and the subsistence rate to account for inflation. We have adjusted maternal capital to reflect the real inflation rate.
I would like to remind you that this year people’s real disposable income is expected to increase by at least 2.5 percent. This is a benchmark set for the Government and this objective must be achieved without fail.
In this connection I would like to note that rising incomes should be ensured not only by effective social support measures but primarily, of course, by economic growth, as you and I both know. This is a key condition for achieving objectives in the social sphere.
It is important to assess the situation objectively. Clearly, last year’s positive economic dynamics can largely be described as recovery and experts say that the potential for growth of this kind has been fully tapped. Under these new circumstances it is important to ensure sustainable long-term development to boost, so to speak, the potential growth rate of the Russian economy. The Government has been assigned this task and today we will talk about progress in accomplishing it.
I would like to emphasise that we need to ensure broad-based development in all sectors of the economy and in each region of the country, which has to produce tangible results: improved well-being of the people and better quality of life all round, including the state of the urban environment, the environment in general, education and healthcare. In this context, I would also like to specially mention the objective of making quality healthcare services accessible everywhere in the country.
We will soon discuss likely supplemental decisions on this and other matters at our next meetings.
Now let us move on to our agenda. I would like to give the floor to Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Let us sum things up and conclude our meeting today.
As I have said, today we have our first meeting as part of drafting the Address to the Federal Assembly.
What would I like to add to this? The Address to the Federal Assembly is not just a speech delivered by the head of state for the entire country, for the nation, promising some bonuses, additional benefits and solutions to social problems in the broader sense of the word. We will have to show the direction in which the country’s development is headed, as well as its economy, and the basis for addressing the main task: improving the well-being of our citizens, which is the most important thing.
In this context, I would like to elaborate on a few things.
First, it is obvious that a certain amount of time has to pass between the decision to launch a project and its actual implementation, as Mr Mishustin just said, as well as his colleagues during our discussion today. Of course, timely decision-making is necessary, or we will not launch some projects at all or never see them completed. The example from the sphere of infrastructure was right and fair: it may take a year, or two, or five, seven, even ten, depending on the project. And we have some grand projects designed to take many years.
We have to carry out the preparations in advance, of course, so that we will not find ourselves in a situation where funding is allocated on an emergency basis, which leads to the outcome mentioned by the Governor of the Central Bank. We saw a lot of examples at the end of last year, which Ms Nabiullina has mentioned. Let me repeat that we must avoid such situations.
This brings me to my second point: precision and objectivity in forecasting the revenue portion of the federal budget is the ultimate priority. It is hard to disagree with the Ministry of Finance. I see that there are a lot of factors creating uncertainty and it is difficult to foresee everything. But still, it is necessary to take prompt and timely action to make certain necessary, correct, and justified adjustments. This is required to make informed, systemic decisions.
I would like once again to use an example from last year, when just three months before its end, in September, the amount of oil and gas revenue was being projected. By the way, we can return the ball to the Ministry of Finance here. At the end of the year, actual receipts turned out to be significantly higher, by a full trillion rubles.
Thirdly, it is important for us, of course, to maintain a conservative approach to state finances. What do I mean? We will continue to observe the budget rule which ensures the balanced growth of government spending. But let me repeat: of course, the budget rule must be followed systematically, based on objective estimates of expected revenue.
Let me remind you here that last September we agreed that the practical implementation of the budget will correspond to the goals we set. This will make the situation more predictable for the Central Bank.
Now regarding the proposal of the Economic Development Ministry for a new and better defined procedure for adding funds to the Government’s Reserve Fund. I understand there is definitely a logic to introducing it; our colleagues have said as much. But let us agree with the Finance Ministry for the time being: we will not do this hastily right now – rather, we will see how it can work and, during our subsequent discussions, we will see if this move is justified and if this needs to be done at all, all the more so as the Finance Ministry believes that existing mechanisms suffice.
Now regarding the evaluation of additional revenue. Some of our colleagues say that a trillion rubles can be allocated for this purpose – some quote a slightly higher figure, others a lower one. They say the budget will receive 1.4–1.5 trillion rubles in additional revenue, the Finance Ministry says it will be one trillion and, accordingly, is guided by this figure in calculating the amount that we will have to allocate in one way or another in order to meet our social obligations – growing social obligations due to changes in the economic situation in our country and around the world.
These are questions that we, of course, have to consider before taking a final decision. I will repeat that this is our first effort. I know you have planned to continue this work in the Government. I ask you to coordinate your efforts and think through all potential risks and scenarios of how the situation may evolve.
But, of course, I have to agree with what my colleagues said: in the social sphere, we always need to be thinking about solutions and moving towards resolving one of the most important issues, I mean, of course, fighting poverty. As for economic development in general, of course, attention needs to be given to infrastructure projects, which have always been important and are even more important in the current circumstances. Mr Mishustin is absolutely right about this and it is important to not miss the right moment for taking a decision.
I would like to thank you. Even before our next meeting – it is scheduled for next week, if I am not mistaken – I will talk, in the regular course of work, with the Prime Minister in private, so to say, and with some of my colleagues from the Finance Ministry, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Central Bank. I would like to ask each of you, after the discussions you have and I will stay in touch with you in one way or another – to present your viewpoint to me as well before the next meeting. Thank you for the work done today.
All the best to you.
Topics
Economy and finance
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 17, 2022, 18:20
Text version