Events
Visit to Patriot military-patriotic park
Vladimir Putin spoke at the opening ceremony of the Army-2022 International Military-Technical Forum and the International Army Games 2022. The forum is taking place at the military-patriotic park of recreation and leisure of the Russian Federation Armed Forces Patriot.
August 15, 2022
15:10
Moscow Region
5 of 6
Speech at the opening ceremony of the Army-2022 International Military-Technical Forum and the 2022 International Army Games. Photo: RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen,
Esteemed foreign guests,
I would like to welcome you to the opening of the Army-2022 International Military-Technical Forum and the International Army Games.
We are happy to receive in Russia, at the now traditional venue of the Patriot Park, the heads and delegations of defence departments, defence industry representatives and military experts from many countries.
In the years of its existence, the forum has convincingly proved its relevance and firmly taken its place as one of the largest global exhibitions of military goods.
Our people are proud of their Army and Navy, the professionalism and courage of their defenders. At all times, they have reliably protected the sovereignty and security of our Homeland and brought freedom to other nations.
Today, our warriors are honourably performing their duty together with Donbass fighters in the course of the special military operation. They are fighting for Russia and peaceful life in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics. They are performing all the tasks that have been set with precision, gradually liberating the land of Donbass.
I would certainly like to once again thank the Russian weaponry makers for equipping our Army and Navy with modern weapons that are now working for our victory and the technological and industrial advance of our entire country, the whole of Russia.
At this year’s forum, about 1,500 domestic defence industry enterprises will present over 28,000 modern samples of military and dual-use products. The application and potential of Russian weapons and technology will be demonstrated here, in the Moscow suburbs, at the Kubinka and Alabino venues, as well as at the proving grounds of all military districts and the Northern Fleet.
I would like to emphasise that Russia stands for the broadest, comprehensive development of military-technical cooperation. This is particularly important today in the context of the emerging multipolar world.
We highly value the existence of many allies, partners and likeminded people on different continents. These are states that do not bow to the so-called hegemon. Their leaders are displaying a genuine masculine character and do not bow. They are choosing a sovereign, independent road of development. They want to resolve all global and regional security issues collectively on the basis of international law, mutual responsibility and consideration of each other’s interests, thereby contributing to the defence of the multipolar world.
Russia sincerely appreciates historically firm, friendly and truly trustworthy relations with Latin American, Asian and African states. We are ready to offer our allies and partners cutting-edge weapons – from small arms to armoured vehicles and artillery, combat aviation and drones.
Military professionals throughout the world value these weapons for their reliability, quality, and, most importantly, their high efficiency. Practically all of them have been used in actual combat more than once.
The forum gives foreign military experts a good opportunity to learn about the development in the Russian defence industry of such areas as the use of artificial intelligence, modern information and radio-electronic technology and the implementation of the latest achievements by our world-renowned design bureaux and schools.
Future-oriented advanced models and systems that will shape “tomorrow” of our Armed Forces are of special interest. We are talking about high-precision weapons and robotics, combat systems based on new physical principles. Many of them are years, perhaps even decades ahead of their foreign counterparts, and significantly superior in terms of tactical and technical characteristics. Displays at Patriot Park, presentations at military training grounds, demonstrations of developments at ERA Technopolis convincingly prove this.
Let me add that Russian companies showcase their achievements in innovative civilian products and technology at special stands demonstrating defence industry diversification. They too deserve close attention.
We intend to actively develop cooperation ties to create new models of weapons and equipment and work together on fair, equal terms. Russia has rich experience in successful technological cooperation like this, primarily within the CSTO and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
We see great potential in training foreign military personnel, running career development courses for them. Thousands of military professionals from around the world are proud that Russian military universities and academies became their alma mater. We will continue to work actively in this important area.
As before, we invite our allies and partners to take part in joint command and staff and other types of exercises. Such training, the development of complex training and combat missions, is important for improving military skills and the quality of military command and control, as well as for tactics and the coherence of units and formations.
I believe that by developing broad military-technical cooperation and joining our efforts and potential, we will be able to ensure reliable security and stability for our countries and the world as a whole.
Friends,
It is important that every year the forum’s programme becomes richer and more diverse, being filled both with traditional and new interesting events.
Like before, the International Army Games will be an excellent platform to show your professional skills. This time more than 6,000 soldiers and officers from 37 countries around the world will take part.
The International Anti-Fascist Congress held as part of the forum is of great social and political importance. The lessons of the terrible tragedy to which Nazism led mankind in the 20th century must not be forgotten. Our duty to the memory of the millions of victims of the Second World War is to respond harshly to any attempts to falsify history, to counteract the spread of any form of neo-Nazism, Russophobia and racism.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the leadership of the Russian Defence Ministry and everyone involved in the preparations for the forum. I believe that it will help further develop military and military-technical cooperation for the prosperity of our countries and nations and promote international security and stability.
I wish you successful work, and I hope that all visitors will experience outstanding and unforgettable impressions.
Thank you for your attention. I declare Army 2022 International Military-Technical Forum and the International Army Games open.
Thank you.
Geography
Moscow Region
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 15, 2022, 15:10
Text version