Events
Meeting with President of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez
The President of Russia met with President of the Republic of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez, who has arrived in Russia on an official visit.
November 22, 2022
16:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez.
The agenda includes the status and prospects of the Russia-Cuba strategic partnership in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian areas, as well as international issues.
Earlier, Vladimir Putin and Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez
attended the ceremony for unveiling a monument to Fidel Castro in Moscow.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade Diaz-Canel,
I am very glad to see you in Moscow again.
Relations between Cuba and Russia have been making steady headway in the three years since our previous meeting here.
I would like to note that we are also developing cooperation between our foreign ministries, parliaments and governments. State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin visited Cuba quite recently.
I know that this time you have a very busy programme here, in Russia, and are going to meet many of your colleagues.
The Intergovernmental Commission is working. It held its 19th session quite recently. We have big plans for cooperation between our governments with many joint projects up to 2030.
We have a great opportunity to analyse with you everything that has been done recently and what needs to be done in the current difficult conditions – but, after all, they have probably never been easy.
You know that the Soviet Union and Russia have always supported and support the Cuban people in their struggle for independence and sovereignty. We have always opposed any restrictions, embargoes, blockades and so on. We have always backed Cuba on international platforms. We are seeing that Cuba occupies the same position with respect to our country, to Russia.
See also
Monument to Fidel Castro unveiled in Moscow
November 22, 2022
All this is a result of the traditional friendship that was started by Comrade Fidel Castro. Today, we have unveiled a monument to him. I think this is a very good monument. I don’t know whether you like it or not. I think it is impossible not to like it. Indeed, this is a good memory of him, a true work of art. He is so dynamic, always in motion, moving forward. It definitely captures the look of a fighter that he had.
I really remember our personal meetings very well, even the details. He was an impressive man. I remember how during our first meeting in his office when we were freely discussing the current situation during lunch, I was stunned by his attention to detail and his knowledge of the nuances of ongoing events, even if they took place far away from Cuba. He was aware of and could analyse everything happening in the world. It was very interesting and useful for me to have these meetings with him.
Relying on this firm foundation of friendship, we must certainly move forward and enhance our cooperation in the current conditions. I am very happy for us to have this opportunity.
Welcome!
President of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez
(retranslated): Thank you very much, dear President Putin.
To start off, fraternal greetings from the Army General [Raul Castro]. He asked me to convey this message to you before I boarded the flight to Russia.
This visit means a lot to us. First, it takes place at a time when both Russia and Cuba have been subjected to unfair unilateral sanctions and have a common enemy, a common source which is the Yankee empire, which manipulates a large part of humankind.
We have had first-hand experience in this regard being blockaded for more than 60 years now. And our first commitment is to continue to uphold the Russian Federation’s position in this conflict which, we believe has its origins, unfortunately, in the fact that the United States is manipulating the international community. We have discussed this before. You have been warning the world for a long time now that the fact that NATO was getting closer to Russia’s borders was unacceptable, and they have tried, in extraterritorial wars, as they always do outside their territory, to find an opportunity to present themselves as “rescuers” and “solvers” of all the situations that may arise in the world.
We constantly condemn the sanctions imposed on the Russian Federation and the sources of the ongoing conflict so that people are not misled and do not blame Russia for this, and we also condemn what Europe is doing, being completely subordinate to US interests.
We were invited to take part in the unveiling of the monument. This is a monument in motion. I think it reflects Fidel’s personality in the midst of struggle, just like we are in the midst of struggle today.
Before the visit, as you noted, there was a session of the intergovernmental commission. For several days now, in a very professional manner, with great depth, the working groups that are part of the commission have been making, I believe, a number of important decisions on key issues, and we will be able to move forward in our cooperation.
We appreciate all efforts of the Russian Federation and your role in orienting the world towards multi-polarity, in encouraging it to move in this direction. In this sense, you have a very strong leadership role. I would also like to exchange views on this.
It is simply surprising that under such complicated circumstances we are managing to maintain our political dialogue at the top level even if not face-to-face. This reflects our great political relations.
We had seven telephone conversations with you at the peak of the pandemic. And now, luckily, we can meet in person. I think we will be able to build up our exchange of views on both global and bilateral issues.
On the other hand, I was very interested in your speech on the reunification of a group of regions with Russia. You made a very meticulous, clear-cut analysis of the events since the Soviet Union’s disintegration, denouncing the role that the imperialist powers tried to play. You made a very thorough analysis of what is happening in the world. You made it clear that the world should come to its senses and described those who are imposing their rules on us. You explained why they impose these rules on us and why they violate them later.
I think this is very structured thinking and analysis, and it is worth sharing with the world. I was happy to listen to this speech. We have identical approaches and views on global issues.
I would like to say again that Russia can always rely on Cuba. We admire the history and culture of Russia and your leadership in many processes, and we will continue doing everything we can for our relations to grow stronger.
The principle of continuity and succession we follow is not just a slogan or a motto. We do want to continue promoting our relations with the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Please convey my best regards to Comrade Raul Castro.
<…>
Geography
Cuba
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Diaz-Canel Bermudez Miguel
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2022, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Ceremony for launching nuclear-powered icebreaker Yakutia and flag-raising ceremony on nuclear-powered icebreaker Ural
The President attended, via videoconference, the ceremony to launch the Yakutia nuclear-powered icebreaker and to raise the flag of the Russian Federation on the Ural nuclear-powered icebreaker.
November 22, 2022
14:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
5 of 8
During the ceremony for launching nuclear-powered icebreaker Yakutia and flag-raising ceremony on nuclear-powered icebreaker Ural.
The new nuclear-powered vessels were built at the Baltic Shipyard in St Petersburg to the order of the Rosatom State Corporation. They are part of Project 22220, under which the largest and most powerful icebreakers in the world are being built. Their main task is to ensure year-round navigation in the Arctic.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues, good afternoon,
Today we have two interesting events important for Russian shipbuilding and our icebreaker fleet and actually for the entire country. It is the accomplishment of two very important, complex tasks, not just two complex tasks but two within one large project. The Russian state flag will be raised on the new universal nuclear-powered icebreaker Ural. Another powerful, contemporary nuclear-powered icebreaker, the Yakutia, is ready for launch at the Baltic Shipyard in St Petersburg. I heartily congratulate all of you on this event.
I want to sincerely thank our shipbuilders, nuclear engineers, designers, workers, engineers and all experts who are taking part in the creation of these technology-intensive, unique – without any exaggeration – vessels, for their extensive work, professionalism, and readiness to develop and reach the most ambitious goals.
Both icebreakers were built as part of a serial project and are included in our large-scale, system-wide work on reequipping and expanding the Russian icebreaker fleet, and on strengthening Russia’s status as a great Arctic power.
I want to note that the first two icebreakers of this series, the Arktika and the Sibir, are already serving in the hardest parts and on complex routes where they have proved their reliability and efficiency, and their top characteristics.
According to the plans, the Ural icebreaker will start performing tasks as early as this December, and the Yakutia icebreaker must be transferred to the fleet at the end of 2024. The commissioning of another icebreaker of the same series – the Chukotka – is scheduled for 2026. In addition, the construction of the Rossiya super-powerful nuclear icebreaker should be completed in 2027 at the Zvezda Shipyard in the Far East: this is truly a super-powerful icebreaker, one of a kind in the world.
Let me stress that the deadlines and the pace of work must be strictly adhered to. I am sure that it will be so. I count on the coordination of all specialists, subcontractors, enterprises and research teams here.
Vessels of such a high ice class are of strategic importance to us. They are needed to study and explore the Arctic, ensure safe and sustainable navigation in this region, and increase traffic along the Northern Sea Route.
Let me repeat again: the development of this most important transport corridor will help Russia more fully unlock its export potential and establish efficient logistics routes, including to Southeast Asia. By the way, we are open to cooperation with our partners, with those who want to work with Russia.
I am confident that we will implement all the plans despite the current difficulties. In order to do so, we will increase the capabilities of our nuclear icebreaker fleet, and, what is essential, we must do this using Russian solutions and production capacities, as well as domestic equipment and components. This is how it actually happens.
I would like to wish great achievements to all of you, friends and colleagues, and further success in their work to the staff of the Baltic Shipyard, as well as fruitful service for the benefit of Russia to the crews of the new nuclear-powered ships.
Congratulations once again.
Please, let us proceed with the planned activities.
Mr Manturov, please.
Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Industry and trade Denis Manturov
: Mr President, colleagues,
Today we are celebrating two major events for Russian shipbuilders. I would like to congratulate them, especially the personnel at the Baltic Shipyard. This is a substantial contribution to increasing our icebreaker fleet and strengthening the status of Russia as the only power with so many icebreakers.
The start of the Ural icebreaker’s year-round operation on the Northern Sea Route today and the launch of the icebreaker Yakutia, which is to be completed and will be commissioned in 2024, are evidence of the continuing build-up of the competencies we need to ensure the construction of our leading vessel, the 120 MW icebreaker Rossiya, which is being built at Zvezda Shipyard in the Primorye Territory.
Although our icebreaker fleet and vessels under construction are noted for an extremely high level of technological sovereignty, we have attracted the largest possible number of contractors and enterprises that produce shipboard equipment, as well as other shipyards under United Shipbuilding Corporation, to ensure the smooth and timely attainment of the tasks set to us by the President of Russia.
The construction of our icebreaker fleet and the addition of the fifth and sixth icebreakers in the group of 60 MW vessels was your decision, which we are implementing with your support. We will accomplish this without fail. This year, Rosatom will sign a contract with the Baltic Shipyard and a large group of related companies, which will ensure the uninterrupted construction of icebreakers.
Apart from the 60 MW nuclear-powered vessels and the 120 MW icebreaker, which is under construction, we are working with our potential clients – NOVATEK, Nornickel and Rosneft – to build diesel icebreakers, so that nuclear-powered vessels can be used for year-round navigation on the Northern Sea Route, while diesel icebreakers will be used in the Gulf of Ob.
Mr President, on behalf of our country’s shipbuilders, I would like to thank you for your tireless support and attention to this industry without which plans for building and developing infrastructure along the sea routes would be impossible to implement.
Thank you for your attention.
With that, I turn it over to USC CEO Alexei Rakhmanov.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Please go ahead, Mr Rakhmanov.
CEO of the United Shipbuilding Corporation Alexei Rakhmanov: Mr President,
The third serial-produced nuclear-powered icebreaker of the 22220 project, the Yakutia, was laid down at the Baltic Shipyard two and a half years ago right before the pandemic broke out. But the shipyard workers did a good job and reconfirmed their high professionalism. Thank you, colleagues for your good work.
Mr President, at your initiative, the USC and Rosatom are in the process of expanding our fleet of the world’s most powerful icebreakers. This project has opened long-term prospects for the shipbuilding industry, helped us bring back to life unique technology and competencies and create new jobs.
The Baltic Shipyard had just 3,000 employees in 2012, and today this number is up to 6,000. This is a great accomplishment for the team.
The USC shipbuilders have built 20 icebreakers and icebreaker class vessels over that time, which are now operating in the Arctic and northern latitudes. This is a tangible result of your decision made 15 years ago, Mr President, to establish the United Shipbuilding Corporation. The Rosatom corporation was created at the same time, and today the two corporations jointly ensure Russia’s technological sovereignty.
This icebreaker, which is about to be launched, has the nuclear reactors and most of the basic equipment already installed. The works to complete the icebreaker will be performed with the vessel afloat.
I wish USC workers every success in finishing their work and completing the order on schedule.
Mr President, according to shipbuilders’ tradition, each ship has a “godmother” who gives it her blessing for good fortune before it is launched into the water. Deputy Prime Minister Viktoria Abramchenko has the honour of being the Yakutia nuclear icebreaker’s godmother. Over to you.
Deputy Prime Minister Viktoria Abramchenko
: Mr President, colleagues,
The nuclear icebreaker Yakutia is rising high before us. It is ready to be floated out. The construction will be completed in December 2024 as planned.
Russian nuclear icebreakers are unmatched in the world and are rightfully our national pride. Russian researchers, engineers and shipbuilders have used the best and the latest technical designs in this project.
Mr President, as the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the environment, I’d be remiss if I don’t mention the high environmental standards of the icebreakers in this series, the 22220 project. We operate ships of this class in the high latitudes, and the environment there needs to be handled with special care. The icebreakers in this series use waste-free technology meaning that the remote unit does not need to be replaced while the nuclear power unit remains operational.
Second, protection against ionising radiation is in place on the icebreaker, which blocks not only the radiation produced by the two reactors but solar radiation as well, meaning that the level of radiation inside the icebreaker is lower than natural background radiation.
Third, the volume of atmospheric emissions is critically important for the Arctic. The emissions from this series of icebreakers have been drastically reduced.
The Arctic is particularly sensitive to soot, or black carbon emissions of which the Yakutia emits only 500 grams per year. Compared to emissions from the typical coal-fired boiler house, these emissions are 100,000 times lower.
I would like to thank the engineers and shipbuilders who have made this formidable project possible.
I want to wish everyone good health and every success in your work, and the beautiful Yakutia speedy entry into service and seven feet under the keel.
Alexei Rakhmanov: Mr President,
The third serial-produced all-purpose nuclear icebreaker Yakutia, hull number 05709, Project 22220 is ready to be launched.
The act of acceptance has been signed. The launch team is in place. The trigger has been checked.
I need your permission to float the icebreaker.
Vladimir Putin: Permission granted. Go ahead.
Alexei Rakhmanov: Shipyard captain, check the water area.
Head of the slipway shop, check the trigger.
Cut the drag chain.
Mr President, the construction of Yakutia’s elder brother – nuclear-powered icebreaker Ural has also been completed at the Baltic Shipyard.
Allow me to give the floor to Director General of the Rosatom State Corporation Alexei Likhachev.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Likhachev, go ahead please.
Director General of the State Atomic Energy Corporation Rosatom Alexei Likhachev: Mr President, we welcome you from the helicopter pad of the Ural icebreaker and would like to first thank you for the decisions made in the interests of developing the icebreaker fleet.
Literally in two years, the number of nuclear-powered icebreakers increased from four to seven. In addition to the future contracts about which Mr Manturov reported to you, we are to build over 70 ice-class vessels – both with icebreaking capabilities and cargo ships – for exports and domestic shipping.
Mr President, this year we expect total cargo shipped on the Northern Sea Route to reach 34 million tonnes. This is two million tonnes more than the planned target under the relevant federal project for the Northern Sea Route. As for Russian cargo shipping, Russian shippers, it is some 800,000 tonnes higher than last year’s record total.
Following your instruction, the Government drafted and endorsed a plan for developing the Northern Sea Route until 2035. This is a strategic document that maps out the development of mega projects in the Arctic – projects of NOVATEK, Rosneft, Nornickel and the Baimskaya Ore Zone.
According to our estimates, by 2035, shipping along the Northern Sea Route will exceed 200 million tonnes; the aggregate macroeconomic effect will exceed 33 trillion rubles and tax revenues will be over 13 trillion rubles.
Mr President, upgrading the nuclear-powered icebreaking fleet is a key condition for the further development of the entire Arctic region.
Allow me to introduce to you some members of the crew from the new nuclear-powered icebreaker Ural.
Ivan Kurbatov ‒ the youngest nuclear icebreaker captain, 40 years old. Last February, the nuclear-powered icebreaker Arktika on which he was chief mate, conducted a unique, extremely late pilotage of small ice-class ships via the entire Northern Sea Route in both directions. Ice thickness reached three metres and only his expertise ensured that the right decisions were made.
Rosatom and Atomflot recognised the achievements of Mr Kurbatov. I am sure that Ivan Kurbatov will display all his leadership qualities as the captain of the new nuclear-powered icebreaker Ural.
Yevgeny Khodus, senior mechanical engineer of the ship, one of the most experienced Atomflot employees.
I am pleased to introduce to you Yekaterina Yemelyanova, operating engineer in charge of the Ural icebreaker’s nuclear power unit.
Mr President, the acceptance commission confirmed successful completion of sea trials by the new nuclear-powered icebreaker Ural. Rostekhnadzor approved the results and the crew has been formed.
I request your permission to raise the national flag of the Russian Federation on the new nuclear-powered icebreaker Ural.
Vladimir Putin: Permission granted.
Alexei Likhachev: Thank you very much.
Attention crew! Raise the national flag of the Russian Federation!
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
What would I like to say in conclusion?
First, and this was just said by the head of Rosatom, together we made a timely decision to build a new icebreaker fleet to replace outgoing vessels and to reflect the growing importance and opportunities of the Northern Sea Route.
Smooth financing, restoration and upgrading of competences – scientific and engineering – in the sphere of special shipbuilding and nuclear power allow us to reaffirm Russia’s high technological status, make full use of existing production capacities and create new shipyards in such a vital region as the Far East. I am referring to the creation of the new large shipyard Zvezda. It is particularly important that these features allow us to build up Russia’s leadership along such important transport artery as the Northern Sea Route.
It was just said that in the near future the shipping volumes are expected to reach up to 200 million tonnes, and this is sure to happen considering the scale and growth of global trade. This is an enormous turnover.
In conclusion, I would like to again congratulate all those who are achieving such meaningful, tangible and vital results for our country. I am not even talking about the broader development of the Arctic or the fact that the future of our country largely depends on the progress in developing our northern regions. Just the development of this route is extremely important for our country at this moment, especially in view of the changing climate. In the near future, its importance will increase many times over. And so, I would like to thank all of you very much.
Of course, I would like to repeat again that we are ready for cooperation with all friendly nations, with all those who want to work with Russia. We know that there is great interest in taking part in this joint work.
Thank you for your work, for the results. I am sure that all plans will be fulfilled – the plans we mapped out with you before and the plans my colleagues have already spoken about today.
Congratulations!
Topics
Transport
Persons
Abramchenko Viktoria
Likhachev Alexei
Manturov Denis
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2022, 14:00
Text versionEvents
Monument to Fidel Castro unveiled in Moscow
Vladimir Putin and President of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez took part in the unveiling ceremony for the monument to Fidel Castro in Moscow.
November 22, 2022
15:50
Moscow
5 of 5
Monument to Fidel Castro. Photo: Sergei Savostyanov, TASS
The monument by sculptor Alexei Chebanenko and architect Andrei Bely features the bronze figure of the Cuban politician installed on a granite pedestal.
* * *
Speeches at the unveiling ceremony for a monument to Fidel Castro
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, Cuban guests, Muscovites, friends,
We have gathered here, on a square named after Fidel Castro, to unveil a monument to this outstanding statesman and political figure, the founder of the modern Cuban state.
Fidel Castro dedicated his life to the selfless struggle to advance the ideas of goodness, peace and justice, for the freedom of oppressed peoples, for a decent life for ordinary people and social equality.
He is rightfully considered one of the most colourful and charismatic leaders of the turbulent and dramatic 20th century, a truly legendary person and a symbol of an era of national liberation movements, the collapse of the colonial system and the creation of new independent states in Latin America and Africa.
Fidel and his associates have selflessly defended the sovereignty of their native country; they did not allow it to be broken by the intervention of mercenaries, sanctions, financial or economic embargo, or attempts at external isolation; they upheld Cuba’s right to its own development model in accordance with national rather than externally imposed values; and made sure that the world takes into account Cuba’s opinion and respects its interests.
For many generations of our fellow citizens, the image of the Comandante has always been shrouded in romantic glory, courage and victories. The lyrics of the well-known Soviet song Cuba, My Love! reflected our sincere and enthusiastic feelings not only for the Island of Freedom and the entire Cuban people, but also directly for Fidel, whose strength, energy and unbending will attracted and still attract people like a magnet.
Friends, I was lucky enough to meet with Fidel Castro on several occasions, and I still remember many hours of conversations with him, especially our last conversation in July 2014.
He talked about the things that were surprisingly consonant with the time –- the time of the development of a multipolar world – saying that independence and dignity cannot be put up for sale and that every nation is entitled to develop as it sees fit and to choose its own path, and that a truly fair world has no place for dictatorship, plunder or neo-colonialism. His encyclopaedic knowledge, deep understanding of the underlying causes of events, sharpness of mind, and accuracy of assessments were striking.
Fidel was a true friend of our country and often came to see us. In 1963, he travelled around almost the entire Soviet Union. He was always a welcome guest in Moscow and loved it very much. As Fidel said, he was willing to come to Russia any time, summer or winter, with or without snow.
Our country has always supported the freedom-loving Cuban people and the leadership of the Republic. And we know it is a mutual feeling. Cuba has been, is and, I am sure, will always be our consistent strategic partner and ally in international affairs.
Friends,
The Russian-Cuban friendship that was bequeathed to us by Fidel Castro is the common legacy of our peoples. Mr President, you represent the new generation of Cuban leaders and you are making an enormous contribution to promoting friendly and trust-based relations between our countries.
We will join efforts in order to strengthen our alliance and to defend the great values of freedom, equality and justice.
Thank you for the attention.
President of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez
(retranslated): Dear Comrade Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation, my dear Russian friends,
It is a great honour for me to take part in unveiling the monument to the historical leader of the Cuban Revolution, Supreme Commander-in-Chief Fidel Castro Ruz.
First, I would like to thank President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin for his participation in this commemorative event. He had the honour of being personally acquainted with Fidel and of having hours-long conversations with him during his visits to Cuba in December 2000 and in July 2014.
I am also grateful to the members of the Russian Military-Historical Society, the Moscow City Duma and particularly, to sculptor Alexei Chebanenko for this noble initiative.
My dear friends,
The personality of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief was very closely linked to the friendship between our peoples and governments that was tempered over 60 years. Fidel understood very well the underlying nature of the fraternal relations between our countries. He always had warm relations with Soviet and Russian leaders. He knew personally and admired Yuri Gagarin and Valentina Tereshkova, the great Russian cosmonauts. He always admired the tremendous spirit of the Soviet people during the Great Patriotic War, the heroism and ability for self-sacrifice in saving humanity from fascism.
Fidel first came to the Soviet Union in 1963. In over 40 years, he visited the most important cities, including Leningrad – a city that he deeply respected for its resistance to the epic 900-day siege by the Nazi army.
This historical visit enhanced the love of your fraternal country by our historical leader and the budding friendship between our peoples that has existed up to this day.
In subsequent years, Fidel travelled to the USSR many times. He last visited in November 1987 to attend the 70th anniversary of the Great October Socialist Revolution.
Till the end of his life, Fidel followed with special interest everything that was happening in this great country. He paid special attention to every event and piece of news linked with Russia and attached special importance to its role in world politics.
In this context, we can say that this monument also recognises the friendship between Russia and Cuba, which has a very firm foundation.
My dear friends, comrades,
I would like to recall with deep gratitude the words written by President Vladimir Putin on behalf of the Russian people when Fidel died six years ago.
I quote, “Fidel Castro was a true friend of Russia, in whom we could believe. He made a tremendous contribution to the establishment and development of Russian-Cuban relations and their close strategic cooperation in all areas.”
Today, we can confirm that the new generations of Cubans that hold public and government positions in the country are committed to continuing our friendship and solidarity with the Russian Federation.
Speaking on behalf of the Cuban people and government, I can speak of our commitment to the behest of Raul and Fidel as regards the friendship they were building for so many years with the USSR and later the Russian Federation. The connections between Russia and Cuba are indestructible. Fidel laid the foundation for these relations and developed them further. Our task is to preserve and continue them. Russia knows that it can continue to rely on Cuba.
Eternal glory to the historical leader of the Cuban Revolution, Supreme Commander-in-Chief Fidel Castro Ruz!
Thank you very much.
Geography
Cuba
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Diaz-Canel Bermudez Miguel
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 22, 2022, 15:50
Text version