Events
New bridge across Sheksna River unveiled in Cherepovets
The President took part, via videoconference, in the opening of a new bridge across the Sheksna River in Cherepovets. He congratulated project participants and all construction industry workers on their upcoming professional holiday, Construction Worker’s Day.
August 10, 2022
11:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Participants in the opening of a new bridge across the Sheksna River in Cherepovets.
Voted by the public to be named Arkhangelsky, the bridge was finished ahead of schedule. Thanks to prompt federal funding and efforts of construction workers, the bridge was commissioned ahead of the planned completion in 2025.
The second bridge in Cherepovets will reduce the high traffic load on the Oktyabrsky Bridge, which has been the city’s only bridge until now.
The new route for motor vehicles will connect four large microdistricts of Cherepovets, provide for circular traffic of public transport vehicles and substantially improve the transport accessibility of the Severstal and Apatit production facilities.
The bridge will also become part of the infrastructure framework of the Northwestern and Central federal districts. It will help expand the transport and logistics corridor in the southern direction, increase transit and strengthen the connections between the Cherepovets metropolitan area, the Vologda Region in general and the capital region.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Please accept my heartfelt congratulations on this festive occasion, the completion of a new bridge across the Sheksna River. It will open for traffic already tomorrow.
This is a big event for a major industrial centre like Cherepovets and the entire Vologda Region and its residents.
It is symbolic that the new bridge is opening in the run-up to your professional holiday, Construction Worker’s Day, to be marked this Sunday.
I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to all those who participated in implementing this project – workers, engineers, and designers. Thank you for your work, your skill, the new technical solutions, which have been embodied in this wonderful structure.
This wide, long, and well-appointed bridge has been built across the Sheksna River, ahead of schedule. You, its creators, were well aware of how necessary this bridge was to the city and the entire region and you did your utmost to achieve this result, displaying perseverance and, in truth, total dedication. And the result is there for all to see.
This bridge, to which the city residents have already given the name of Arkhangelsky, will serve to develop the entire Cherepovets agglomeration and its new districts, and will become a crucial link in the transport system connecting north-western Russia with other regions of the country.
New opportunities are opening up in the context of the endeavour to establish transport communications, increase their availability, organise transit through federal and regional routes, and expand logistics corridors.
The construction of this bridge is a spectacular and worthy result of the work done by Russia’s entire construction industry. In spite of the current difficult situation, it confidently demonstrates its efficiency, working really fast and well, and setting new records. The industry is by right regarded as one of the drivers of the national economy.
We are proud of its achievements in housing construction. Last year, 92 million square metres of new housing were commissioned, thousands of kilometres of roads were built or repaired, and important social and production infrastructure facilities were erected.
And of course, I would like to specifically note the assistance that our builders, showing courage and professionalism, are providing to the residents of the Donetsk and Lugansk people's republics.
Today, millions of people are involved in construction projects – excellent professionals who are creating the image of modern Russia and building a solid foundation for its development in all areas.
Unique modern technologies, materials, engineering and technical solutions allow us to realise the most daring and ambitious ideas.
But the honourable, creative and respected work of builders, your truly gifted hands, your experience, competencies, and responsible attitude to what you do will always be at the very core.
My friends, once again, from the bottom of my heart, I wish the very best to all construction industry workers in Russia on their professional holiday.
Good luck to you, good health and all the best!
<…>
Geography
Vologda Region
Topics
Construction industry
Regions
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 10, 2022, 11:30
Text version