Events
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, with permanent members of the Security Council.
January 21, 2022
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
During the meeting with permanent members of the Security Council (held via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
, Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
, as well as Acting Minister for Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief Alexander Chupriyan.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we will discuss additional measures to improve fire safety and reduce the risk of emergencies and disasters during the high-water season. Everything must be done in good time, so these will be the main items on our agenda today.
But before we get down to work, I would like to highlight another important topic that matters to millions of our citizens. I am referring to pensions. Only recently, we took a decision to raise pensions by adjusting them for inflation for civilian retirees. This came up during the United Russia party congress, as well as at my recent news conference. This is a question of ensuring the wellbeing and preserving the incomes of our senior generation.
As I have already said, we took a decision on civilian retirees to increase their pensions, starting from January 1, by 8.6 percent, which is above last year’s inflation rate.
See also
Security Council News
Of course, we must not forget about those who retired from the military. I believe that we need to follow the same approach for military retirees and those with a similar status. I am referring to the retired employees of the Interior Ministry, the National Guard, the Ministry of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief, the Prosecutor General’s Office, the Investigative Committee, and other structures. Overall, this is about 2.6 million people.
As you know, the initial plan was to adjust military pensions for inflation on October 1, 2022, with a 4 percent increase. This is clearly below the actual inflation rate. Moreover, these people would have had to wait for this increase for too long.
Instead, I suggest that we take the following decision: to adjust pensions for those retiring from the military and those with a similar status from January 1, 2022, by 8.6 percent, like for all other retirees, instead of 4 percent. Let me reiterate that this exceeds the actual inflation rate. I am asking the Government to carry out this decision without delay, including by reassessing pensions that have already been paid for the month of January so that people receive the money they are owed with the next monthly pension.
Let us now move on to today’s agenda.
<…>
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Pensions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: January 21, 2022, 14:30
Text version