Events
Working meeting with Head of the Republic of Karelia Artur Parfenchikov
Head of the Republic of Karelia Artur Parfenchikov reported to the President, via videoconference, on the region’s performance.
May 27, 2022
12:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Working meeting with Head of the Republic of Karelia Artur Parfenchikov (via videoconference).
Artur Parfenchikov
said that in recent years, thanks to federal support and the maximum use of their own capabilities, the situation in the republic has changed dramatically.
At the end of last year, regional revenues almost doubled compared to the 2017 level. Industrial production, in comparable prices, grew by almost 12 percent, and investment, by 40 percent, exceeding 70 billion rubles.
The region is establishing technology parks to promote economic growth and support entrepreneurship. Russia's first stone processing technopark has opened in Petrozavodsk; the Karelian Products Technopark is being created now; there are plans to set up a technopark for packaging as part of the country’s import substitution policy. All these projects enjoy the support of the Ministry of Economic Development.
The unprecedented sanctions pressure on Russia has also opened up new opportunities for the development of domestic production. For example, Petrozavodskmash foundry, a major industrial enterprise in Karelia, has seen a dramatic increase in the volume of contracts, including those to supply engine and turbine frames – these products used to be imported.
As for agriculture, in 2018, the region discontinued the practice of rezoning agricultural land as forest reserves. To date, 14,000 hectares of land have been reinstated as cropland. The number of local farms increased 2.5 times over. State-owned agricultural companies are also expanding; there are four of them in the republic, including two state stock breeding farms.
Karelia is one of the top three Russian fish farming regions. The republic accounts for 70 percent of all Russian trout. Projects are being considered to build feed plants as well as fish hatchery and fingerlings production businesses. New environmentally friendly technologies are being introduced in fish farming and fish processing. The first projects have been launched in the White Sea in the Arctic.
Berry farming is a new and promising segment of local agriculture. Last year, the gross harvest of fruits and berries in all categories of farm exceeded 4,000 tonnes, which was almost twice the 2018 figure. According to the regional head, Karelia will be able to reach a leading position in this segment and to compete with the top manufacturers, even foreign ones.
Forestry and the timber sector are a vital part of the republic’s economy. Karelia is implementing a pilot project to introduce a model of intensive use and reproduction of forests.
The republic has implemented the President’s instruction to reduce the export of timber. Timber exports have been reduced by nearly 50 percent and timber processing in the republic has increased by 30 percent.
Various rating agencies assess Karelia as one of the best tourism regions in Russia. The number of registered tourists and travellers in Karelia was 957,000 last year, an increase of 14 percent compared to 2020.
The President was also updated on the development of the housing construction sector, the relocation of people from dilapidated housing, the modernisation of the healthcare system, construction of social facilities, development of vocational education and the implementation of the Safe and High-Quality Roads national project. Over the past five years, more than 600 kilometres of regional roads have been repaired in the republic, which is 12 times more than in the previous five years.
The head of the republic asked for the President’s support in matters of gas supply, the reduction of electricity rates and the revival of intra-regional air services.
Artur Parfenchikov noted that his term as the Head of the Republic of Karelia expires this year, which is why it is important for him to know the President’s opinion about his performance and career prospects.
Vladimir Putin replied that the situation in the republic was complicated when Parfenchikov became head of the republic, but the current trends were positive. He pointed out the growth of the gross regional product and investment in fixed assets. The President added that he expected Artur Parfenchikov to use the available positive trends when dealing with priority issues, notably support the labour market with investments, maintain stability, improve the situation in single-industry cities, and settle the problem of water supply and water treatment. He said that it was a major issue that could not be settled without support from the federal centre. Applications from the republic will be forwarded to the relevant government agencies. The President asked Artur Parfenchikov to coordinate these matters thoroughly together with the colleagues in the Government. He said that everything possible would be done to help the head of the republic.
Vladimir Putin also said that the experience which Artur Parfenchikov gained as head of the republic would have a positive effect on his work in this position during the next term and wished him success.
Geography
Republic of Karelia
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Social services
Persons
Parfenchikov Artur
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2022, 12:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of the Republic of Adygea Murat Kumpilov
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Head of the Republic of Adygea Murat Kumpilov, via videoconference. Murat Kumpilov updated the President on the socioeconomic development of the republic over the past five years.
May 27, 2022
11:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
At a meeting with Head of the Republic of Adygea Murat Kumpilov (via videoconference).
According to Murat Kumpilov
, the GRP has grown by 116 percent; the industrial production index was 125 percent. For the past five years, internal income has grown by 50 percent. In 2022, the growth rate is 126 percent. The region’s dependence on subsidies has dropped to 15 percent. The republic’s debt load is low: the state debt has dropped by 22 percent and is 21 percent of the region’s internal income. The volume of investment was 173 billion rubles.
Murat Kumpilov also told the President about housing construction, the development of agriculture and the construction of social facilities. In the past five years, five schools, 18 kindergartens, four hospitals, four outpatient clinics, 30 first-aid stations, four houses of culture and 14 fitness centres have been built in the republic. Many social facilities have been renovated and undergone a major overhaul; a lot of infrastructure has been built.
In previous years, Mr Kumpilov said, much had been accomplished in Adygea, but even more activities and objectives lie ahead as part of state programmes, national projects and investment projects. Murat Kumpilov said that he was ready to continue the work and expressed hope that the President, and, of course, the republic’s residents, will support him.
Vladimir Putin noted that there were many positive and sustainable trends in the republic, such as the growth of GRP, industrial production, and other indices. At the same time, the President pointed out that the volume of investment has somewhat dropped. Murat Kumpilov explained that in 2020, a major project on wind power was implemented, including the construction of 60 wind turbines with a total capacity of 150 MW. This year, there are plans to implement 25 investment projects worth 77 billion rubles. These include such major projects as the development of the Lago-Naki resort and an industrial park. Therefore, the republic is expecting a boost in investment and the creation of new jobs.
Vladimir Putin also emphasised that there is another important area of development, namely, the labour market. This is important for the country in general, and especially for the Caucasus. The President mentioned that he had reviewed Mr Kumpilov’s appeals related to healthcare and the allocation of additional funds from the reserve fund. Overall, the President said, the situation is stable and is on the rise, and he promised he would submit relevant instructions to the Government of the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin thanked Mr Kumpilov for his work and wished him success.
Geography
Republic of Adygeya
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Social services
Persons
Kumpilov Murat
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2022, 11:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
Vladimir Putin attended, via videoconference, a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
May 27, 2022
14:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 6
During a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan
, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
, President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
, President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov
, President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
as the head of EAEU observer state, and Chairman of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board Mikhail Myasnikovich.
President of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez
sent a video address to the meeting participants as the head of EAEU observer state.
A package of documents was approved following the meeting. In particular, a decision was made to begin talks on signing a free trade agreement with the Republic of Indonesia. The main benchmarks for the EAEU member states’ macroeconomic policy for 2022–2023 were determined.
* * *
Address at the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
I share the views of those who have given a positive assessment of the EAEU performance in their statements.
It is true that integration development is gathering momentum within the framework of the EAEU, and the efficiency of our common markets of goods, services, capital and workforce is increasing. Moving one step at a time, we are creating a comprehensive common economic space of the EAEU.
As mentioned earlier, on May 29 we will mark eight years since the signing of the fundamental Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union. Over that period of time, we have covered a large part of the road, boosting cooperation on the principles of equal dialogue and mutual respect, and trying to strengthen, and strengthening, our Eurasian union. We have done this very expeditiously, turning the EAEU into an effective and influential regional economic body and organisation.
We can report substantial achievements in the key spheres of our cooperation, namely trade, the industry, finance and agriculture. Most importantly, the citizens of our countries can see the practical effect of our integration, which we have been working on consistently, in everyday life.
See also
First Eurasian Economic Forum
May 26, 2022
We wholeheartedly support the draft decision to declare May 29 the Day of the Eurasian Economic Union. Our calendar will have one more landmark day, which unites our nations and symbolises the commitment of the EAEU states to integration development.
Eurasian integration is really paying off, as you can see from the economic indicators.
Mutual trade between the EAEU member states has been growing consistently. According to available information, our trade increased by approximately one-third in 2021 to $72.6 billion. The member states’ aggregate GDP grew by 4.6 percent (4.7 percent in Russia), industrial production by 5.3 percent, investments in fixed assets by 6.8 percent, completed construction projects by 5.4 percent, the construction of housing by 12 percent, and cargo turnover by 4.7 percent.
It is notable that our cooperation is based on plans and is developing systematically. We are working persistently to implement the programme of the strategic development of Eurasian economic integration until 2025.
Our countries’ economic and regulatory authorities continue their efforts to identify and eliminate the remaining restrictions and barriers to the free movement of goods, services, capital and workforce in the EAEU internal market. In the last two years alone, 30 such restrictions have been lifted.
And of course, life itself dictates the need to create a truly barrier-free market across the EAEU territory. We are all certain that closer integration will make our countries stronger, economically, and significantly reduce dependence on external factors, including political ones.
The advantages of the integration policy are especially obvious now, in the current difficult international situation, amid real aggression on the part of certain unfriendly states. The President of Belarus mentioned this specifically, here. But we would like to note that the Russian Government is making timely decisions to ensure the stable, confident functioning of the markets and the financial sector. Much attention is paid to supporting key industries and major employers. The rules for doing business have been significantly simplified – the administrative burden has been dramatically reduced to ensure as much freedom as possible for entrepreneurs.
We are also working to increase the availability of financing for businesses’ operational expenses and to maintain bank liquidity. To this end, we are expanding the practice of mutual payments for goods in national currencies with the countries that have proved reliable partners of Russia. By the way, the share of payments in national currencies in the EAEU countries has already reached 75 percent.
In this regard, I would like to note that at Russia's initiative, the Eurasian Five have adopted a number of urgent anti-crisis measures aimed at minimising the consequences of sanctions, increasing the resilience of our economies, strengthening their macroeconomic stability, and helping entrepreneurs and citizens of our states.
The Eurasian Economic Commission has approved more than 30 anti-crisis measures, and they have certainly had an effect.
Three packages of measures have been approved since March to streamline customs regulation, putting an end to the duties on more than 1,600 critical imports. As a result, importers will be able to save up to $800 million over the next six months.
In addition, the requirements of the EAEU technical regulations have been relaxed. To restrain prices, the Commission raised the threshold for the duty-free import of goods for personal use to 1,000 euros.
Steps are being taken to replace imports and further deepen industrial cooperation between the EAEU countries in strategic sectors, including civil aircraft construction and pharmaceuticals.
An interstate programme is being prepared to expand the digital infrastructure in the EAEU countries. More digital solutions are being deployed to serve logistics corridors; high-tech customs administration services are being introduced; e-commerce is being developed and improved.
I consider it important that we prioritise efforts to ensure food security. You know that the global situation is rather complicated. Our countries are making a major contribution to resolving these problems, and Russia and all other members of our organisation are acting in a highly responsible manner.
Today, our five countries produce enough foodstuffs and agricultural produce to fully meet domestic demand. Considering the fact that the EAEU is the largest agricultural exporter in the world, as I have already said, our organisation implements all possible measures, including customs tariff and non-tariff regulation, for maintaining sustainable supply chains.
Colleagues, we are pleased that, despite the complicated international situation, the confrontation unleashed by the collective West, and our ill-wishers who are trying to hamper our integration in every possible way, all of us can clearly see that many foreign partners are becoming more and more interested in the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union. Our colleagues have noted this right now.
Active talks are now underway to conclude a full-fledged free trade agreement with Iran, among others (we have already mentioned these countries). This agreement aims to replace the current temporary 2018 agreement, which has already expanded the Union’s trade volumes with the Islamic Republic of Iran. By late 2021, trade soared by 73.5 percent and reached $5 billion. EAEU exports increased 2.1-fold, to reach $3.4 billion.
To preserve the existing preferential trade treatment with Iran, we support a decision to extend the temporary agreement, pending the signing of a new free trade agreement.
We also deem it advisable to speed up talks on signing a free trade agreement with Egypt and to launch similar talks with Indonesia. In addition, we need to explore the possibility of signing a preferential trade agreement with the United Arab Emirates.
In conclusion, I would also like to thank President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov for the excellent organisation of our work. We are noting the efforts of Kyrgyzstan, as president of the Eurasian Economic Union, to ensure the effective performance of our association throughout 2022, and we strive to provide all possible assistance to our Kyrgyz friends. We will continue to do so in the future.
I would like to emphasise once again that Russia prioritises deeper allied ties with all EAEU states. We hope very much that our closest partners, including Uzbekistan, will move in a direction that meets the interests of Uzbekistan, and that they will also develop our association accordingly, while assessing all the advantages of intra-EAEU cooperation. In turn, we will do our best to maintain integration processes in the Eurasian region.
Thank you.
Topics
Anti-sanctions
EAEU
Foreign policy
Persons
Diaz-Canel Bermudez Miguel
Japarov Sadyr
Lukashenko Alexander
Mirziyoyev Shavkat
2 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2022, 14:20
Text version