Events
Meeting with Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
The Minister of Defence reported to the Supreme Commander-in-Chief on the completion of the partial mobilisation.
October 28, 2022
17:05
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Please, Mr Shoigu.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
Starting September 21, the military enlistment offices, together with the executive authorities of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation, have been carrying out the partial mobilisation effort, which involved calling up 300,000 people and deploying them to military units.
Each of the regions in our country put in a significant effort. Regional governors as well as other levels of executive authorities, including municipal and regional bodies provided invaluable assistance and support.
In the course of the partial mobilisation, more than 1,300 representatives of executive authorities have been called up, as well as over 27,000 entrepreneurs. As many as 13,000 Russians volunteered to fulfil their duty before any mobilisation notices were served to them. The average age of mobilised Russians is 35.
At an early stage, there were problems with various types of supplies and subsistence for the mobilised. These problems have been resolved. All those deployed to their units are provided with the required supplies, uniforms, equipment, and food at the same standard as professional military personnel serving under contract.
Particular emphasis is being placed on the proper training of newly mobilised reservists. At present, 218,000 people are in combat training as part of crews or units in training centres and grounds.
After completing the training, 82,000 reservists were sent to the area of the special military operation, including more than 41,000 who joined units there. Those who see action will receive the status of combat veteran and the corresponding package of social benefits. All recruits called up under the mobilisation have been deployed today. No more notices are being served. The target you set – 300,000 people – has been achieved. No additional objectives are planned. Military enlistment offices will continue to staff the troops for the special military operation only by accepting volunteers and candidates planning to join the service under contract.
This concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Ok, thank you very much.
I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in this great work. You said yourself that there were certain problems and difficulties in the first stage. This was probably inevitable, considering that no such event has taken place in our country for a long time.
But nevertheless, the necessary conclusions need to be drawn. The whole system of military enlistment offices has to be upgraded. This work, as you know, directly bears on interaction with the regional authorities. It has to be built up to a modern level. I know that the Defence Ministry is taking these steps in conjunction with the Government of the Russian Federation: the steps that have been taken and made it possible to eventually overcome these difficulties and reach the parameters that were necessary to complete this work.
The most important thing today is to equip, train and coordinate, and everything else that has to do with making people feel confident if they have to take part in direct combat operations.
Please tell me these figures again. As of today, all the people we have mobilised…
Sergei Shoigu: We have 218,000 at training grounds undergoing joint combat training.
Vladimir Putin: Right.
Sergei Shoigu: 82,000 people are already in areas where the special military operation is being conducted. Of these 82,000, 41,000 are operating as part of the military units.
Vladimir Putin: Actually, 41,000 are active in combat units, and the rest are still being trained, one way or another.
Sergei Shoigu: Yes, Mr President. We are devoting special attention to this, because we need to send trained and equipped troops.
Vladimir Putin: Absolutely, this is what we should do.
There is something else I would like to say in this regard. We have an Armed Forces development plan that is in place and is being implemented. It is being implemented at a pace and to the extent that it was planned and agreed to at all levels.
A lot has been done to develop the Strategic Missile Forces and equip the Ground Forces and other troops with modern weapons, including long-range and high-precision ones. All this is in place and has shown itself in combat conditions to the best advantage. Much has also been done to build the Navy.
Nevertheless, based on the experience of the special military operation, we need to review and make adjustments in developing all the components of the Armed Forces, including the Ground Forces. I ask you to work out the details of that task within your Ministry and discuss all the issues at the expert level so we can prepare and adopt all the necessary decisions within a short time, so that they are also compatible with the plans for the development of defence industry enterprises.
Sergei Shoigu: Will do, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Let's agree that in December, at the annual board meeting, after all this work, I'll repeat, including at the expert level, that you will report on these proposals and be ready to adopt them.
And in conclusion, I would like to thank all those who have joined the Armed Forces. I want to thank them for their loyalty to their duty, for their patriotism, for their steadfast determination to defend our country, to defend Russia, and that means their homes, their families, our citizens, our people. I ask you to convey these words of gratitude to the troops.
Sergei Shoigu: Will do, Mr President.
<…>
See also
Executive Order on partial mobilisation in the Russian Federation
September 21, 2022
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 28, 2022, 17:05
Text versionEvents
Extraordinary meeting of the CSTO Collective Security Council
Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in an extraordinary meeting of the CSTO Collective Security Council.
October 28, 2022
13:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
Extraordinary meeting of the CSTO Collective Security Council (via videoconference).
Also attending the meeting were Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan
, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
, President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
, President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov
, President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
and CSTO Secretary General Stanislav Zas.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
As everyone is well aware, Russia has always – in historical perspective – placed emphasis on stability in this region and supported our Armenian friends in ensuring the security of the Armenian people, since ancient times.
As for the Armenian-Azerbaijani settlement, we continue making every effort to achieve a comprehensive and thorough normalisation of relations between Baku and Yerevan. I would like to note at the outset something that is clear and obvious to everyone: in recent past, Azerbaijan and Armenia, and Russia too, we were all part of a single state. Russia has strong ties with both Yerevan and Baku, and it is simply impossible not to take this into account. That puts all of us in a rather difficult position. But we certainly cannot stay away from the problems and disagreements between the states Russia is so close to and we are invariably ready to contribute to a peaceful resolution of their differences. And we undoubtedly are generally interested in making the South Caucasus a peaceful and steadily developing region.
Without a doubt, the only possible and realistic path to peace is the one through strict compliance, by the parties, with all the provisions of the well-known joint statements of the leaders of Russia, Armenia and Azerbaijan – I am not going to list all this now.
Only through the consistent implementation of these agreements, through delimitation of the Armenian-Azerbaijani border, freeing up transport services, and resolving humanitarian issues will it be possible to achieve a sustainable normalisation between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The Prime Minister of Armenia and I have discussed this many times, and I understand that our colleague fully agrees with this. The question is how to find these solutions. It is not easy, but you can only find them on this path. In the future, this will pave the way to a peace treaty.
<… >
Topics
CSTO
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 28, 2022, 13:40
Text version