Events
Presenting state decorations to winners of XXIV Winter Olympic Games in Beijing
The ceremony for presenting state decorations to the gold medallists of the XXIV Winter Olympic Games in Beijing took place in the Kremlin’s St Catherine Hall.
April 26, 2022
14:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
13 of 14
With gold medallists of the XXIV Olympic Winter Games.
Vladimir Putin presented state decorations to Kamila Valiyeva, Alexander Gallyamov, Nikita Katsalapov, Mark Kondratyuk, Anastasia Mishina, Viktoria Sinitsina, Denis Spitsov, Veronika Stepanova and Alexei Chervotkin.
Earlier today, Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko
and Presidential Aide Igor Levitin
presented state decorations to the silver and bronze medallists of the Beijing Olympics.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
I am delighted to see you, to be able to congratulate you on your brilliant performance at the XXIV Winter Olympic Games in Beijing and to present state decorations to you. You have won them with your talent, hard work, skill and dedication to sports and its values and ideals.
It is not an overstatement to say that your brilliant resolute wins and the victories of all our Olympians, the Russian athletes, have become the real gems of the Winter Olympics. Fans not only in Russia but throughout the world admired and rejoiced at your performances.
See also
Meeting with winners and medallists of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and members of the Russian Paralympic team
April 26, 2022
You have proved once again that you are among the best athletes in the world. Russia has held absolute leadership in women’s single figure skating for the third Olympics. The strikingly beautiful virtuoso skating by our young ladies, with Anna Shcherbakova at the top, has been an unreachable summit for their rivals. This is really so. We have heard the words your rivals used, and they are true.
Russia has won yet another gold in the team figure skating event. Technically difficult and very impressive performances of Alexander Gallyamov and Anastasia Mishina, Viktoria Sinitsina and Nikita Katsalapov, Mark Kondratyuk and Kamila Valiyeva struck a chord with the fans and judges. Thankfully, the judging was stable and impartial in this context.
Of course, the whole of Russia and figure skating fans all over the world were particularly rooting for Kamila. Her talent has soaked up all the most difficult elements of figure skating, its flexibility, beauty, power and tenderness. Through her hard work, she has elevated the sport to true art. It is impossible to reach this level of perfection by dishonest means, with the help of additional methods or manipulations. Moreover, there is no need for all these additional means or methods in figure skating – all of us understand and know this full well. For the time being, let us wish Kamila many happy returns of the day: she is celebrating her birthday today. I will have an opportunity to do this again in an informal setting.
Russian skiers have also achieved outstanding successes. Here I will primarily note the long-awaited skiing relay victories. As is common knowledge, the last time a [Russian] women’s cross-country skiing team won the title of champion was in 2006, and a men’s team – in 1980. And we have not seen a simultaneous victory by the relay teams, male and female, for precisely 50 years. This is certainly a great achievement.
The confident and powerful performance by our ladies – Yulia Stupak, Tatyana Sorina, Natalya Nepryayeva and Veronika Stepanova – has become a big present to our fans. More than that, Veronika Stepanova turned out to be the youngest cross-country skiing champion in Olympic history. The men – Sergei Ustyugov, Alexei Chervotkin, Denis Spitsov and Alexander Bolshunov – have shown their worth in a no less brilliant manner. Their performance was daring – daring in the best sense of the word. Let me note that Alexander Bolshunov gathered a large collection of Olympic awards in Beijing: three gold medals, a silver medal, a bronze medal, and the absolutely deserved symbolic title of “the king of skis.” Everyone knows this well, and I have an opportunity to congratulate him.
I congratulate once again all of you who are present here on your convincing victories, and, of course, I wish you new successes. You will certainly achieve them.
Congratulations. Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Let me once again congratulate you on your state decorations. One of the recipients has just said that the necessary conditions were created for you, but it is our duty, the duty of any state and officials in charge of organising work in the field of sports to do this.
Of course, the credit goes to your hard work. Hard work, talent and commitment of you and your coaches – you are the real heroes here. Your success is essential for the country and, in fact, for every Russian, I believe. You know this, but I would like to stress it once again.
Thank you very much. I wish you success and congratulate you.
Topics
Sport
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Commission for State Decorations, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: April 26, 2022, 14:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with winners and medallists of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and members of the Russian Paralympic team
Vladimir Putin met with the winners and medallists of the XXIV Winter Olympic Games in Beijing and members of the Russian Paralympic team in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s St George Hall.
April 26, 2022
15:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
At a meeting with winners and medallists of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and members of the Russian Paralympic team. Photo: RIA Novosti
Before the meeting, Vladimir Putin presented state decorations to the gold medallists of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, good afternoon,
I am delighted to see you all in this Kremlin hall.
I would like to begin by thanking you all – thank you for your hard work, for your achievements and your strong determination to win. Your victories in sports are certainly an inspiring, maybe even a super-inspiring example for many, for millions of people. It is highly significant for our entire society, for our youth, who are learning to be as resilient and dedicated as you are, as determined to persevere towards their goal and achieve the highest success, the highest results, to be the best.
See also
Presenting state decorations to winners of XXIV Winter Olympic Games in Beijing
April 26, 2022
This is something that your mentors and coaches have largely taught to you to be; they were always there for you, supporting you, raising you along with your parents, and they are certainly proud of you now, probably even more proud than you are.
Making it through the most difficult qualifications for the Olympic and Paralympic Games is already impressive. The path towards this is always thorny and demands special talent and selfless work; each of you has negotiated that path worthily.
But of course, winning gold, the gold medal of the world’s biggest tournament, is the highest point in any athlete’s career. Once again, I congratulate the champions of Beijing – our brilliant figure skaters and excellent skiers. At the same time, I would like to note all the other medallists.
The second and third places on the Olympic podium are a huge victory as well, especially when it comes to long-awaited medals – such as the silver medal in ski jumping, something Russians have not won since 1968, or bronze in women's single sled (the last medal was won in 1980), or in the women's mogul, where they managed to repeat the achievement of 1994.
Alexandra Trusova’s silver medal stands tall as well. She was the first in the world to successfully land five quadruple jumps and opened a new page in the history of figure skating.
The men's speed skating team set another Olympic record, just one step away from the champion title. Overall, Russian skaters, including the short track, brought the national team two silver and two bronze medals.
Russian biathletes won four Olympic medals. We know that we can do more. The same applies to the men’s ice hockey team with the arrival of a new and promising generation.
There is a lot of potential in freestyle, which can be seen in the fact that our team, including both recognised masters of this sport and their worthy younger cohort, won three bronze medals.
It is my hope that snowboarder Victor Wild, who won a bronze medal in Beijing, will contribute to training future champions. I know that Victor announced his retirement from the sport, but his knowledge and experience are very important for the next generation.
I would like to especially emphasise our Paralympic athletes. You trained hard to show your best at the Beijing Paralympics, and to prove in an honest and open competition that you are the best and deserve this status. Of course, the way things played out does not stand up to any criticism. The fact that athletes from Russia and Belarus were prevented from competing was not only an outright violation of the fundamental principles of sport, but an act of open and, dare I say, cynical trampling of fundamental human rights.
All this is set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly back in 1948. This is not a question of the political, legal, or international status of the country the athletes represent. It is about the people, the athletes themselves. Their rights have been trampled upon. Our athletes suffered from discrimination on purely political grounds, based on their citizenship and ethnic background. This is something unimaginable, since it is completely at odds with the principles of the Olympic and Paralympic movements.
In fact, the “recommendations” took on the form of actual sanctions. Unfortunately, all this demonstrates the continuing drive towards subjecting sports to a business agenda, considering the growing dependence on sponsors – the money bags. This applies to both the Paralympic and the Olympic movements. Unfortunately, it goes without saying that dependence on corporations and subjecting Paralympic and Olympic sports to a business agenda is the path towards degradation.
Time and again, Russia has warned its partners against using double standards and the principle of collective responsibility in sports. Guided by the Olympic Charter, we kept telling them that the Games are a competition of athletes, not countries, and called for making sports politics-free, since politics reduces the values that international sports stand for to nothing, and it turns sports into a tool of manipulation.
Unfortunately, we have been witnessing cases which carry these actions and policies by our partners to the point of absurdity. What happened to our swimmer Yevgeny Rylov recently is a case in point. The International Swimming Federation suspended him for nine months from competition just because be attended a concert on the anniversary of Crimea’s reunification with Russia. This is total nonsense.
Such situations and approaches have been and remain a serious, major problem for both athletes and sports organisations, and for people who realise the huge importance of sports as a unique system for developing individuals and society and promoting ties and friendship between countries and peoples. All this is also obvious to Russia, to its citizens, and therefore we will fulfil all sports-related programmes, plans and commitments. We remain open to broad constructive cooperation with anyone who values the principles of sports and is loyal to sports.
This is borne out, for instance, in the Winter Games that Russia organised in Khanty-Mansiysk for the strongest Paralympians. Russian and Belarusian athletes are some of the best in the world. This is a fact beyond doubt. They won a third of all awards at the world championships held before the Games in Beijing. Armenia, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan also have strong teams that took part in our sports holiday.
Russia has the absolute long-standing lead in ski races and biathlon. Ivan Golubkov, Yekaterina Rumyantseva, Stanislav Chokhlayev and Anastasia Bagiyan confirmed this in Khanty- Mansiysk. The alpine skiers achieved their traditionally high results as well. I would like to congratulate Alexei Bugayev, Varvara Voronchikhina and Valery Redkozubov on their victories.
Our snowboarders Mikhail Slinkin and Alexei Petrov also won gold medals as did representatives of the Russian sledge hockey school, who invariably demonstrate a real team spirit and brilliant skills.
Winners and medallists of the Khanty-Mansiysk Games will receive bonuses corresponding to the traditional payment awards for achievements at the Paralympics.
Without exaggeration, the contribution of our athletes to the development and promotion of the Olympic and Paralympic Games is enormous. Today, I would like to congratulate you and the veterans of Soviet and Russian sports that are still with us; thank you for your outstanding successes and I wish you all the best.
The glorious traditions of Russian sport will be maintained and strengthened. We will do all we can to protect the rights of our athletes, and the competitions we hold will be open to all our friends and real partners, such as the World Olympians Association and the International Military Sports Council, which has supported Russian athletes.
There are no unfriendly countries for Russia in sports. We are happy to welcome anyone who stands for sports without discrimination or artificial barriers and for the sports ideals of justice, equality and fair competition.
I would like to wholeheartedly congratulate all of you once again and to wish you new victories. Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: In conclusion, I would like to add a few words to what our Paralympian has said. I believe that his main idea was that problems are being created for us and that we always become stronger when we overcome these problems.
We have everything we need for this. We have perfectly obvious competitive advantages connected with the size of our country, its scale, its various climate zones, its technological development and the growing government attention to sports, athletes and physical fitness.
I would like to point out again that your example is inspiring millions of people and encouraging government agencies and officials at all levels to respond appropriately to the requirements that appear in connection with your achievements and to join forces to explore new horizons, including in sports.
I would like to congratulate you once again on your achievements at the Olympic Games and to wish every success to our Paralympians. We will do everything I have mentioned here, which is what we will be talking about right now at the Presidential Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport.
Thank you once again for your achievements, and all the best.
(The National Anthem of Russia plays.)
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: April 26, 2022, 15:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres
Vladimir Putin is holding a meeting with Secretary-General of the United Nations Antonio Guterres in the Kremlin.
April 26, 2022
20:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
At a meeting with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Secretary-General,
I am very happy to see you.
As one of the founders of the United Nations and a permanent member of the UN Security Council, Russia has always supported this universal organisation. We believe the UN is not simply universal but it is unique in a way – the international community does not have another organisation like it. We are doing all we can to support the principles on which it rests, and we intend to continue doing this in the future.
We find the expression of some of our colleagues about a world based on rules somewhat strange. We believe the main rule is the UN Charter and other documents adopted by this organisation rather than some papers written by their authors as they see fit or aimed at ensuring their own interests.
We are also surprised to hear statements by our colleagues that imply that some in the world have exceptional status or can claim exclusive rights because the Charter of the United Nations reads that all participants in international communication are equal regardless of their strength, size or geographical location. I think this is similar to what the Bible reads about all people being equal. I am sure we will find the same idea in both the Quran and the Torah. All people are equal before God. So, the idea that someone can claim a kind of exceptional status is very strange to us.
We are living in a complicated world, and, therefore, we proceed from reality and are willing to work with everyone.
No doubt, at one time the United Nations was established to resolve acute crises and went through different periods in its development. Quite recently, just several years ago, we heard it had become obsolete, and there was no need for it anymore. This happened whenever it prevented someone from reaching their goals in the international arena.
We have always said that there is no other universal organisation like the United Nations, and it is necessary to cherish the institutions that were created after WWII for the express purpose of settling disputes.
I know about your concern over Russia’s military operation in Donbass, in Ukraine. I think this will be the focus of our conversation today. I would just like to note in this context that the entire problem emerged after a coup d’état staged in Ukraine in 2014. This is an obvious fact. You can call it whatever name you like and have whatever bias in favour of those who did it, but this was really an anti-constitutional coup.
This was followed by the situation with the expression of their will by the residents of Crimea and Sevastopol. They acted in practically the same way as the people living in Kosovo – they made a decision on independence and then turned to us with a request to join the Russian Federation. The only difference between the two cases was that in Kosovo this decision on sovereignty was adopted by Parliament whereas Crimea and Sevastopol made it at a nationwide referendum.
A similar problem emerged in south-eastern Ukraine, where the residents of several territories, at least, two Ukrainian regions, did not accept the coup d’état and its results. But they were subjected to very strong pressure, in part, with the use of combat aviation and heavy military equipment. This is how the crisis in Donbass, in south-eastern Ukraine, emerged.
As you know, after another failed attempt by the Kiev authorities to resolve this problem by force, we arrived at the signing of agreements in the city of Minsk. This is what they were called – the Minsk Agreements. It was an attempt to settle the situation in Donbass peacefully.
To our regret, during the past eight years the people that lived there found themselves under a siege. The Kiev authorities announced in public that they were organising a siege of these territories. They were not embarrassed to call it a siege although initially they had renounced this idea and continued military pressure.
Under the circumstances, after the authorities in Kiev actually went on record as saying – I would like to emphasise that the top state officials announced this in public – that they did not intend to fulfil the Minsk Agreements, we were compelled to recognise these regions as independent and sovereign states to prevent the genocide of the people living there. I would like to reiterate: this was a forced measure to stop the suffering of the people living in those territories.
Unfortunately, our colleagues in the West preferred to ignore all this. After we recognised the independence of these states, they asked us to render them military aid because they were subjected to military actions, an armed aggression. In accordance with Article 51 of the UN Charter, Chapter VII, we were forced to do this by launching a special military operation.
I would like to inform you that although the military operation is underway, we are still hoping to reach an agreement on the diplomatic track. We are conducting talks. We have not abandoned them.
Moreover, at the talks in Istanbul, and I know that you have just been there since I spoke with President Erdogan today, we managed to make an impressive breakthrough. Our Ukrainian colleagues did not link the requirements for Ukraine’s international security with such a notion as Ukraine’s internationally recognised borders, leaving aside Crimea, Sevastopol and the newly Russia-recognised Donbass republics, albeit with certain reservations.
But, unfortunately, after reaching these agreements and after we had, in my opinion, clearly demonstrated our intentions to create the conditions for continuing the talks, we faced a provocation in the town of Bucha, which the Russian Army had nothing to do with. We know who was responsible, who prepared this provocation, using what means, and we know who the people involved were.
After this, the position of our negotiators from Ukraine on a further settlement underwent a drastic change. They simply renounced their previous intentions to leave aside issues of security guarantees for the territories of Crimea, Sevastopol and the Donbass republics. They simply renounced this. In the relevant draft agreement presented to us, they simply stated in two articles that these issues must be resolved at a meeting of the heads of state.
It is clear to us that if we take these issues to the heads of state level without even resolving them in a preliminary draft agreement, they will never be resolved. In this case, we simply cannot sign a document on security guarantees without settling the territorial issues of Crimea, Sevastopol and the Donbass republics.
Nevertheless, the talks are going on. They are now being conducted online. I am still hoping that this will lead us to some positive result.
This is all I wanted to say in the beginning. I am sure we will have many questions linked with this situation. Maybe there will be other questions as well. We will talk.
I am very happy to see you. Welcome to Moscow.
(In his remarks, the UN Secretary General expressed concern over the situation in Ukraine, while emphasising the need for a multilateral world order based on the UN Charter and international law. Antonio Guterres also presented the two proposals he had put forward the same day during his meeting with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. These proposals concern humanitarian matters, including humanitarian corridors, in particular, for Mariupol residents, as well as setting up a humanitarian contact group in which the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UN OCHA), the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Russia, and Ukraine would work together to discuss the situation in order to make these corridors truly safe and effective.)
Vladimir Putin: Mr Secretary General,
Regarding the invasion, I am well-versed in the documents of the International Court on the situation in Kosovo. In fact, I have read them myself. I remember very well the decision by the International Court, which states that when fulfilling its right to self-determination a territory within any state does not have to seek permission from the country’s central government in order to proclaim its sovereignty. This was the ruling on Kosovo, and this is what the International Court decided, and everyone supported it. I personally read all the comments issued by the judicial, administrative and political bodies in the United States and Europe – everyone supported this decision.
If so, the Donbass republics, the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Lugansk People’s Republic, can enjoy the same right without seeking permission from Ukraine’s central government and declare their sovereignty, since the precedent has been created.
Is this so? Do you agree with this?
(Antonio Guterres noted that the United Nations did not recognise Kosovo).
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course, but the court did. Let me finish what I was saying.
If there is a precedent, the Donbass republics can do the same. This is what they did, while we, in turn, had the right to recognise them as independent states.
Many countries around the world did this, including our Western opponents, with Kosovo. Many states recognised Kosovo. It is a fact that many Western countries recognised Kosovo as an independent state. We did the same with the Donbass republics. After that, they asked us to provide them with military assistance to deal with the state that launched military operations against them. We had the right to do so in full compliance with Chapter VII, Article 51 of the UN Charter.
Just a second, we will talk about this in a minute. But first I would like to address the second part of your question, Mariupol. The situation is difficult and possibly even tragic there. But in fact, it is very simple.
I had a conversation with President Erdogan today. He spoke about the ongoing fighting there. No, there is no fighting there; it is over. There is no fighting in Mariupol; it has stopped.
Part of the Ukrainian armed forces that were deployed in other industrial districts have surrendered. Nearly 1,300 of them have surrendered, but the actual figure is larger. Some of them were injured or wounded; they are being kept in absolutely normal conditions. The wounded have received medical assistance from our doctors, skilled and comprehensive assistance.
The Azovstal plant has been fully isolated. I have issued instructions, an order to stop the assault. There is no direct fighting there now. Yes, the Ukrainian authorities say that there are civilians at the plant. In this case, the Ukrainian military must release them, or otherwise they will be doing what terrorists in many countries have done, what ISIS did in Syria when they used civilians as human shields. The simplest thing they can do is release these people; it is as simple as that.
You say that Russia’s humanitarian corridors are ineffective. Mr Secretary-General, you have been misled: these corridors are effective. Over 100,000 people, 130,000–140,000, if I remember correctly, have left Mariupol with our assistance, and they are free to go where they want, to Russia or Ukraine. They can go anywhere they want; we are not detaining them, but we are providing assistance and support to them.
The civilians in Azovstal, if there are any, can do this as well. They can come out, just like that. This is an example of a civilised attitude to people, an obvious example. And anyone can see this; you only need to talk with the people who have left the city. The simplest thing for military personnel or members of the nationalist battalions is to release the civilians. It is a crime to keep civilians, if there are any there, as human shields.
We maintain contact with them, with those who are hiding underground at the Azovstal plant. They have an example they can follow: their comrades-in-arms have surrendered, over a thousand of them, 1,300. Nothing bad has happened to them. Moreover, Mr Secretary-General, if you wish, if representatives of the Red Cross and the UN want to inspect their detainment conditions and see for themselves where and how medical assistance is being provided to them, we are ready to organise this. It is the simplest solution to a seemingly complex issue.
Let us discuss this.
<…>
Topics
UN
Persons
Guterres Antonio
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 26, 2022, 20:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
The President held a videoconference meeting of the Presidential Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport on further promoting mass sport.
April 26, 2022
17:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
The meeting participants discussed proposals on further developing mass sport and ensuring wider access to it as well as measures to support domestic sporting goods manufacturers.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of meeting of the Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
I have just met with our athletes – members of the Olympic and Paralympic teams of Russia – and would like to note a few points before getting down to today’s agenda.
See also
Meeting with winners and medallists of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and members of the Russian Paralympic team
April 26, 2022
The first point. The winners and medallists of the Beijing 2022 Olympic Games are certainly outstanding athletes who won a befitting number of medals. However, today we are not at a gala event but basically at a production meeting, and we need to objectively evaluate everything that we are doing.
In this respect, I would like to note that our final team rating is still below what was planned in the Strategy for the Development of Sport, and I would certainly like the Minister of Sport to report on this.
The second point. In the current conditions, in the face of pressure on Russia and its citizens, it is pivotal to maintain our athletes’ competitiveness. In addressing our national teams, I said that we intend to carry out everything we planned in sports.
As for the projects cancelled in Russia by international sports management associations – well, let God sort them out, we must replace these cancelled competitions with our own new formats. We can do this pretty quickly: organise open multi-stage sports tournaments that will be attractive in all respects, and ensure the participation of foreign athletes, clubs and teams in these tournaments.
I would like to ask the Government to immediately start compiling a list of competitions and determine the amounts and sources of funding for both the planned projects and for new initiatives.
Additional
News of the Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Now back to the Council's agenda. We continue to review matters related to mass sport. Last time, we discussed children's and youth sports. Today we will discuss ways to involve greater numbers of economically active people in regular physical fitness and sport.
Clearly, special approaches are needed since we are talking about people with families whose daily routines include their jobs and household duties. In particular, we need to think about promoting modern corporate fitness. Much has already been accomplished in this area. We should build on the experience of our major companies and state corporations such as Gazprom, Russian Railways, Rosatom, LUKOIL and Rostec, which initiated the revival of the Trudovye Reservy sports society in 2018.
I welcome the creation of the Association for Promoting Corporate Fitness. I believe the next step should include a joint programme of action for businesses and government authorities at all levels, as well as public associations, including our renowned sports societies like Dynamo, Spartak and CSKA. I hope that close cooperation and work for a greater common cause will help overcome a number of daunting challenges, for example, in expanding the system for organising and holding mass fitness and sports events.
Clearly, the competitions – national, regional and municipal – should be mostly integrated and include multiple stages, be focused on people of all ages and be accessible and appealing to people of all fitness levels.
The public must be properly motivated. To do so, it is imperative to expand the coverage and promotion of mass sport in the state media, to enthusiastically promote the National GTO sports programme through outreach awareness drives and various kinds of incentives for participants, and, of course, to create proper conditions for physical activities in the form of modern and well-equipped sports infrastructure. A Paralympic athlete just spoke about this and put it absolutely correctly. It is important to create a conveniently located infrastructure that is easy on the wallet. This is a multifaceted and big issue that needs to be reviewed by the Council separately. I propose holding our next meeting on this.
We also expect heads of Russian regions and municipalities to be proactive in developing fitness and sports and ensuring its accessibility. It is especially important to create and launch information systems to help people navigate sports, health and fitness services, find out where and which sport they can do on their own or with their families, and what sports events are planned in their regions. I know that such systems are already in operation in a number of regions. I would also like to remind you of the instruction to create such a resource at the federal level. I would ask you to report on the progress today.
In conclusion, I would like to highlight one more point, which is no less important. It was previously decided that by 2024, the constituent entities of the Federation are to allocate at least 2 percent of their regional budgets for sports. I suggest thinking about increasing spending on sports every year from 2025 on and doing it in such a way as to avoid gaps in the financing of sports, the quality and availability of sports infrastructure, depending on each region’s financial standing – we know that they are different.
Again, this is of the essence, among other things, to achieve the goal of getting 55 percent of Russians involved in regular exercise by 2024, and 70 percent by 2030, and this can only be done if all regions of our country join the effort.
I’d like to note that in 2021, 49.4 percent of citizens were reported to regularly do sports. This is a good result, but still far from ideal. Further trends directly depend on the effective implementation of the decisions we make, on how well and timely the instructions are fulfilled, including the instructions issued following the Council for Sport meetings. I ask you to prepare a report on the implementation of these instructions.
Let's get to work.
<…>
Mr Chernyshenko, go ahead please.
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko
: Mr President,
First, I will describe what the Government has done under the sanctions pressure on your instructions. There are over 250 priority measures to support our economy. They include universal, general measures that, of course, concern sports organisations to varying degrees, and also special measures to assist the sports industry. While drafting them we considered the proposals of the entire professional community.
I will briefly list the main ones, which the Prime Minister has approved. It is important to talk about them on your platform to let as many participants in the industry as possible hear about them and use them.
We have 185,000 physical culture and sports organisations. They now have access to benefits like preferential loans, schedule extensions for implementing projects through subsidies and their special budgets by two years, a moratorium on the bankruptcy of legal entities, the suspension of inspections, the easing of administrative tax liabilities including a moratorium on tax sanctions, a possibility to include expenses for maintenance of social infrastructure facilities in their costs, and – something very important – the involvement of sports-related small and medium-sized businesses and socially-oriented NGOs in state contracts. Since March 1, over half of all state contracts have been concluded with small and medium-sized sports companies worth about 22.5 billion rubles.
The second point. We have drafted measures to support domestic sports equipment manufacturers under the import substitution programme. The Ministry of Sport and the Ministry of Industry and Trade are jointly working on purchases of domestic equipment for health and fitness centres and arenas. They are buying this equipment directly from manufacturers through a specially created service – a kind of import substitution stock exchange. It unites over 14,000 different companies and we are encouraging sports equipment manufacturers to find consumers through this exchange. Now every seventh company has joined this service while manufacturers have received the opportunity to postpone tax payments with no penalties.
The validity period for certificates confirming the origin of domestic equipment has been extended and so-called reverse engineering introduced.
Third, the government has redistributed the funds that became available after the international competitions had been cancelled, through no fault of ours, to promoting sports. As part of the new federal project, “Business Sprint,” over 2 billion rubles will be used to build an additional 80 sports grounds for mass sport within walking distance of users. By the way, this initiative was supported by United Russia.
Initially, we planned to open 110 of such “smart grounds” this year. In all, 370 such sites, worth over 12 billion rubles, will be built in all our regions within the next three years. The grounds that will be built this year will make it possible for many of our people, primarily children, to feel the effect and start exercising right next to their blocks of flats.
Fourth, it was decided to adjust the federal budget funds that are being allocated to the regions for purchasing sports equipment for inflation. One billion rubles in additional funding has already been set aside.
As per your instruction, we are making sure that the installation of sports infrastructure continues uninterrupted. Co-financing of the construction of 167 sports facilities worth over 33 billion rubles in all regions continues. About 100 of them will become operational this year. We hope to be on schedule with all of them. There are major facilities like ice arenas with 10,500–12,000 seats that are being built on your instruction in Novosibirsk and Omsk, or a sports and recreation complex in Ufa for 500 seats. The costs involved in the construction will be adjusted as well.
To compensate for higher prices on building materials, budget allocations for sports infrastructure have been increased by over 1.2 billion rubles.
Fifth and last, we have altered our approach to competitions. We plan to hold integrated sports competitions with our partners from the SCO and BRICS. The sports ministers in the SCO countries will determine a joint plan for promoting sports in our respective countries in Tashkent in May.
Mr President,
We will soon submit documents for holding cross-years of sports in Russia and China for your consideration. The corresponding plan has been worked through. China is also very active in this regard, and it will help us maintain competitive activities in the country since athletes need to train and compete with other top-level athletes.
So, this year’s calendar includes over 4,500 events in 134 sports, both Olympic and non-Olympic, such as championships, cups, Russian national championships and other national competitions that we will hold as open events. We believe it is important to make international-level award payments to athletes participating in these competitions, including athletes from friendly countries. Please support this proposal.
And sixth. We are working on replacing the foreign bases where our athletes in some sports used to train. The Government has allocated over 800 million rubles within the priority measures to upgrade the existing federal training centres including adapting them for Paralympic practice.
Most of the training sessions this year will be held at centres in the Moscow and Tula regions, the Krasnodar and Stavropol territories, and in Crimea. Russia must set up new bases in different climatic and nature zones. This is what you were talking about at the meeting with the Olympians, and one of the Paralympians said this. The Ministry of Sport has been instructed on the matter.
To conclude, I will emphasise that we can now clearly see how the present situation has virtually united everyone who sincerely cares about our country, and about Russian sport, and we actually have many friends. We must get through this situation with the most possible benefits for Russian sport, with our own modern training centres, with Russian technology and our methods of training.
You asked to report separately on how your instructions are being fulfilled as regards the introduction of the Fitness and Sport information system. The design, on the Gostech platform, was completed in 2021. Preliminary tests have been run and performance verified. It included 14 regions and nine sports federations.
This state information system is a very convenient tool for managing the entire sports industry across the country both in public and professional sports. It offers services for athletes and for everyone in sports, which means 67 million people in our country. The services have been worked out to meet users’ needs and expectations.
This digital platform is being made available to all sports facilities for free. It has a number of planning tools, for example, a marketplace where commercial information services for sports activities (they have a lot of traffic) can meet the consumer, or competition schedules that include not only international and Russian national competitions but also public events including in villages, as well as a register of over 300,000 facilities across the country.
Every citizen will be able to select a sports school for their child or make an appointment for a test session via their personal account. You will be shown an example of a regional system today.
Thank you very much. This concludes my report.
<…>
Minister of Sport Oleg Matytsin: Mr President,
Allow me to report on the results of the Olympic Games, which you mentioned in your opening remarks.
Objectively, Russia won 32 medals. We excelled in the number of silver and bronze medals and that of fourth places. On the one hand, this is good news, as is the fact that 68 Russian athletes have won a range of medals. This is also the best achievement. For example, Canada had 59 athletes, Germany – 57 athletes, and Norway – 34 athletes. It is also important that we ascended the podium in ten events. This is also the best result.
But, of course, you were absolutely right in saying that we failed to gain eight gold medals as we had announced, winning instead only six.
What are the reasons? First, in our opinion, the management and training of national teams is insufficiently centralised, including the scientific, methodological, logistical and medical support. We think it is necessary to expand the powers of the Ministry of Sport and amend the regulations accordingly. We have drafted the relevant proposals.
Mr Chernyshenko has commented on the second objective point, which is also important. The Russian Federation lacks a number of sports training facilities, specifically year-round skiing, biathlon, skating, Alpine skiing, snowboard and freestyle bases. This has become particularly obvious during the COVID-19 pandemic and the period of sanctions. In keeping with the Government’s instructions, we have prepared relevant proposals with a feasibility study. We hope that you will support this project.
There were, of course, subjective factors, such as the denial of access to unvaccinated Russian athletes or deliberate refusal to issue visas.
An objective reason, as I see it, is also the fact that many leading Russian athletes – Pavel Kulizhnikov, Roman Repilov, Mikhail Kolyada, Maxim Gurov, and Eduard Latypov – were exposed to Covid. This happened shortly before the Olympic Games and they did not recover in time for the Games.
Naturally, we have conducted an expert analysis jointly with the Russian Olympic Committee and the federations. We have taken into account all the problems I have mentioned and a plan of preparations for the next Olympic cycle has been drawn up.
<…>
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Commissions and Councils, Council for the Development of Physical Culture and Sport
Publication date: April 26, 2022, 17:50
Text version