Events
Meeting with Head of Federal Customs Service Vladimir Bulavin
The Head of the Federal Customs Service updated the President on the service’s performance in January-September 2022.
October 25, 2022
22:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 5
Head of Federal Customs Service Vladimir Bulavin.
Vladimir Putin congratulated the Russian customs personnel on their professional holiday.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Bulavin, the forecast target for the transfer of funds to the federal budget in the first nine months of the year has been executed by 105 percent. As far as I know, export and import revenues are balanced; the figures are almost identical, which is very good because there was a period when imports decreased, but they are growing now. The effectiveness of the customs work and customs control has increased by 65 percent year on year.
First of all, I would like to thank you and all the customs personnel for this, which is a good reason to congratulate you on your professional holiday, Customs Officer Day.
Head of the Federal Customs Service Vladimir Bulavin
: Mr President, thank you very much for the congratulations and the kind words to the customs personnel and for your constant attention to the Federal Customs Service. We will do our best to fulfil the tasks set to us.
It has been a challenging year for the customs agencies, just as for the rest of the country. The sanctions adopted by unfriendly countries have created unsubstantiated obstacles in the movement of goods and payments for them, disrupted the transportation and logistics chains that took years to create, had an adverse effect on our foreign trade and therefore affected the customs sphere as a whole.
Under these circumstances, our priority task was to minimise the consequences of the sanctions and their effect on our economy and business, do all we can to promote trade, primarily the import of goods essential for our economy, that is, socially significant goods, and, of course, provide every possible assistance to our Armed Forces and defence industry companies in the attainment of the goals set to them.
In light of these new challenges, customs operations were adjusted to address our tasks systemically and efficiently. Today we can review our performance in the first nine months of the year.
You have already noted that we have fulfilled the forecast. Over the past nine months, the electronic customs clearance centres have completed more than 3 million online customs declarations. The total volume of cleared freight, both imports and exports, is 691 million tonnes, worth $611 billion. The customs duties collected amount to 4.796 trillion rubles, which is 219 billion more than we predicted.
Vladimir Putin: And that is exactly 105 percent, right?
Vladimir Bulavin: Yes, 105 percent.
It should be noted that the customs revenue collected, specifically 850 billion rubles, was used to support businesses dealing with customs. If the customs clearance rate remains as it is, this amount will increase to 1 trillion rubles by the end of the year.
We have digitised all the resolutions, put forward by yourself and the Government, concerning support for businesses dealing with customs and respective mechanisms, and we have integrated them with our information system, which guarantees that these solutions can be applied uniformly and consistently across the entire system, minimising subjective factors.
First, it should be noted that the most helpful measure for businesses was customs duty exemption for essential and socially significant products. The total volume of goods imported duty-free is 6 million tonnes. I believe this measure has alleviated shortages in shops and prevented price hikes.
Our aviation industry has found itself in a challenging situation due to the sanctions. Many aircraft were formally under temporary import, therefore, we had to legalise them as under free circulation. Over nine months, we have released 297 aircraft, which provided 264 billion rubles in customs duty exemptions, to be used as support funding.
Vladimir Putin: That is a substantial amount.
Vladimir Bulavin: It is.
I should also mention parallel imports. Since May, parallel imports across 52 product categories have been organised. We estimate that more than 1 million tonnes of goods, essential for our industrial production, were imported, worth almost 6.5 billion rubles. This is quite significant, especially when it comes to the categories of goods that were banned by the sanctions.
Not only companies but also individuals benefitted from support. The duty-free threshold for e-commerce customers has been increased from 200 to 1,000 euros, significantly expanding people’s access to the goods they can buy online.
I also want to note that the large-scale reform we conducted, as per your resolution, has fully justified itself and continues to be relevant in the current conditions.
Our information systems remain flexible, consistent, reliable and effective in operation, considering the large number of features that are unavailable and the calibrations that are required. Customs clearance declarations can be submitted via 16 electronic customs clearance centres and 8 electronic customs offices.
Given the current situation, we have expanded the so-called green sector that features minimal risks, and we have added 3,000 more entities involved in foreign economic operations there. This sector now accounts for 76 percent of all submitted declarations and for 88 percent of all payments. Most importantly, it is possible to automatically issue these declarations.
Today, online declaration centres automatically record 85 percent of online declarations, and they automatically issue 33 percent of them. In other words, we can say that out of the three million declarations submitted, one million have been issued automatically. The process takes 30 seconds in the morning, and 2.5 minutes in the evening, when we are processing peak loads.
In addition, I would like to note that we have fulfilled another decision you made, and we have launched a newly-completed data-processing centre in Tver. They are currently installing equipment there, and all our information resources will be relocated to new facilities. This will allow us to considerably expand our digital capabilities and to start implementing stage by stage our programme, our Strategy-2030, to convert from online customs clearance procedures to those featuring artificial intelligence. As we say, this implies a conversion to intelligent customs clearance methods.
With new constitutional laws signed this year, and four new regions having joined the Russian Federation, we are moving to establish new customs divisions in the new Russian regions. We are planning to set up two customs houses in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, as well as one customs outpost in the Kherson Region and one more in the Zaporozhye Region. We will assign responsibility for them to our Southern Customs Directorate.
Mr President, while we are establishing customs divisions, existing customs agencies in Russian territories bordering on the newly incorporated territories can effectively deal with customs clearance and customs control matters.
Theoretically speaking, it is possible to submit several dozen declarations daily. Given that currently we handle 10,000 declarations, we can effectively cope with this new influx.
We have trained customs officials for the new customs agencies at our Russian Customs Academy. Some of them have been trained at our central administration during various conferences, seminars and webinars. However, this process is rather complicated because their customs clearance concepts were based on a different legal framework and entirely different software packages. Nevertheless, we believe that we will be able to launch customs clearance and customs control processes in the newly-integrated territories by New Year’s Eve or in early January, as stipulated by law.
On the whole, we see no problems here, and everything is proceeding according to plan, without any setbacks.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
See also
Greetings on Customs Officer Day
October 25, 2022
Topics
Customs
Persons
Bulavin Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2022, 22:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau Umaro Sissoco Embalo
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau Umaro Sissoco Embalo, who is also Chairman of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), at the Kremlin.
October 25, 2022
14:55
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau Umaro Sissoco Embalo.
The agenda included such topics as development of bilateral relations, topical regional and international issues, and Russia’s engagement with ECOWAS, including preparations for the second Russia-Africa summit scheduled for July 2023.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, good afternoon.
I am very glad to see you.
Next year we will mark the 50th anniversary of our diplomatic relations, but this is the first meeting of the presidents, heads of state. We are very glad to see you in Russia.
Throughout the history of Guinea-Bissau, its fight for independence and afterward, during the formation of Guinea-Bissau statehood, Russia – both the Soviet Union and Russia – and your country have always enjoyed very good and very warm relations. And today we continue to develop the very same relations.
Of course, we still have a lot to do to promote trade, economic and cultural ties, though even now, considering cooperation in education, the situation is developing quite positively.
I know that you are now the head of the Economic Community of West African States, with 400 million people living in its member countries and an overall GDP of US$550 billion. And in general, Russia has very decent trade with it and, most importantly, very good trade growth.
We hope that a significant contribution will also be made to the development of relations with Guinea-Bissau, with the ECOWAS member states, and with the entire African continent during your chairmanship of this organisation.
As you know, in 2019 we held a very successful Russia-Africa summit in Sochi. We are planning to hold a similar summit next July in our northern capital, St Petersburg.
Mr President, we are very glad to see you. Welcome to Russia!
President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau Umaro Sissoco Embalo (retranslated): Thank you.
I think it is very important that our relations develop and adapt. Guinea-Bissau has also been historically an unshakable partner of Russia and the Soviet Union.
I represent ECOWAS, too, so I will pass on a message from all its member states.
You can see that today’s situation in relation to the war between two brotherly nations, Russia and Ukraine, as well as with regard to grain and fertilisers, has blocked progress all over the world. This is very important. We think and hope that we will be able to find a way to establish a dialogue between the two brotherly nations.
I also think it is crucial for President Putin to tell us what he can do to resolve this conflict. The position of Africa in this context shows in reality that what Russia brings to the world is very important.
I would also like to say that we are partners and would like to discuss security issues in West Africa.
Russia is present in all countries of the world; you have embassies everywhere. We would also like to discuss matters of importance, such as the role you play in the world.
I have come as a brother and a friend, of course.
<…>
Geography
Guinea-Bissau
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2022, 14:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with members of the Government Coordination Council on the needs of the Russian Armed Forces
The President held a meeting, via videoconference, with members of the Government Coordination Council on meeting the needs of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, other troops, military formations and bodies.
October 25, 2022
17:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Meeting with members of the Government Coordination Council on the needs of the Russian Armed Forces (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
As you know, the Executive Order to establish the Coordination Council under the Russian Government was signed on October 21.
My colleagues told me many times and for different reasons – in connection with the economic restrictions and the conduct of the special military operation – about the need to update procedures and regulations on decision-making in the most diverse areas of activity. This concerns the economy in general and individual branches of production, the Armed Forces, supporting the special military operation with everything necessary and so on.
We faced certain difficulties and the need to upgrade our work, give it a new momentum and new character when we were responding the coronavirus pandemic. We managed to do much then to update these regulations and get rid of the archaic procedures that are preventing us from moving forward at the pace the country needs.
Now we are faced with the need to more rapidly resolve issues associated with providing support for the special military operation and the need to counter economic restrictions that were imposed on us, which are truly unprecedented without any exaggeration. I have spoken many times with many of those present at this meeting about issues related to the need to update our entire work to improve administrative procedures. We have approached these problems many times from various angles.
And now the situation is such that life itself is pushing us to give this effort the most profound consideration and develop common approaches to updating all procedures, all administrative procedures, everything that is part of “governance” in the broadest sense of the word. And this, of course, cannot be done without broad and deep coordination between all efforts, all entities, all ministries, agencies with entirely different scopes – officials responsible for security and economics, and regional governments. This is precisely the purpose that the Coordination Council was created for.
Let me remind you that the Coordination Council was to have formulated target objectives for each specific effort by today. These target objectives are not ready yet, but I have no doubt that they will be sent in in the near future.
The Coordination Council includes deputy prime ministers, heads of agencies, including security ones, representatives of the Executive Office and of Russian regions. As you know, it is headed by the Prime Minister, and I would like to give him the floor now.
Mr Mishustin, I would like to ask you to tell us how you are planning to organise this work in the very near future and what you consider to be the most important, the highest priority in this work.
Please, Mr Mishustin, go ahead.
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
: Thank you.
Mr President, colleagues,
Following your instruction, Mr President, we established the special Coordination Council to meet the needs of the Armed Forces. It held its first meeting yesterday. To begin with, we formed its structure, determined the main sets of tasks and the supervising deputy prime ministers.
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Grigorenko
will be in charge of finances and regulations as a deputy head of the Council, while Deputy Prime Minister Denis Manturov
will deal with supplying weaponry, uniforms and food for our military personnel. He will head the working group at the same time.
Another two deputy prime ministers will head the Council’s groups in other key areas. Marat Khusnullin
will be responsible for building infrastructure. It is not limited to barracks or training camps but also includes social facilities, transport and logistics. Tatyana Golikova
will be in charge of medical support, including provision of specialised, high-tech assistance and rehabilitation for our defenders. Naturally, she will also supervise a very important area – the military pay system.
There are other areas in which we will systematise our work. This primarily concerns fuel supplies, energy, communications, information system development, databases, analytical support and, of course, feedback from mobilised personnel and their families.
In accordance with your instruction, we have already developed this information system. There is a hotline people can reach by dialling 122 to receive the information they need. It has already received about 1.5 million calls though the number is steadily declining. By today, it has gone down from 170,000 to 20,000 calls per day. The hotline’s database has over 600 replies. It is being expanded with the arrival of new questions. A major portion of answers is published on the Obyasnyayem.RF website. Almost 18 million people have visited this website since the start of mobilisation.
We are dealing with life situations, responding to people’s requests, using the feedback platform of the unified public services portal for this purpose as well. We are not only analysing typical problems but are also working on a case-by-case basis with due account for regional features and other specifics.
Mr President, you gave an instruction to organise the timely issuance of monthly payments to our defenders, including mobilised soldiers and those who were called up and are undergoing training. As I already said, this work is being carried out by Tatyana Golikova and Anton Siluanov
as part of the Coordination Council’s activities.
Monetary allowance for the rank-and-file mobilised troops amounts to 195,000 rubles from day one. Increased payments are made in accordance with rank. All funds have been made available to the Defence Ministry in a timely manner. We are keeping a close watch.
These payments are being monitored by the Finance Ministry jointly with the Defence Ministry as part of the Coordination Council working group’s activities.
We are about to launch a feedback form on the public services portal to monitor compliance.
We will continue to inform the public about federal and regional support measures.
I am confident that the distribution of responsibilities between the Coordination Council members will allow us to quickly establish interaction at all levels in order to deliver on time everything that our servicemen may need.
Mr President, separately I will discuss special personal protective equipment and materials for them as it is an important issue. It is important to increase their production and to launch full-scale production of uniforms and clothing items to fully provide mobilised citizens with all they may need. The light industry capacities, including small businesses in the regions, and the constituent entities of the Russian Federation must be involved in this. Uninterrupted supplies of raw materials, materials, fabrics must be organised as well.
The Defence Ministry’s technical requests for equipment and, accordingly, compliance control measures were brought to the attention of each contractor.
The Government acted quickly to allocate additional funds to buy necessary types of uniforms, and the contract-signing procedure is in full swing. We need to make sure that our defenders’ needs for equipment are covered in full.
Mr President, the Coordination Council will work on a regular basis, and we will report to you weekly on the decisions it makes as per the Executive Order.
Thank you for your attention.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Please, Mr Sobyanin.
Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
: Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues,
Mr President, following your instruction we established a State Council working group that included all regions of the Russian Federation, as well as representatives of the Government and special services.
We are working in four key areas. The first one deals with Presidential executive orders on developing levels of response to arising threats. This is complicated technical and organisational work involving all security departments and the Government. In the majority of regions, this work is conducted in a calm, planned out manner, without any emergency measures. Nonetheless, in a number of regions, especially in the border areas like the Belgorod Region, it is necessary to take additional response measures and we are working on them both with the regions and the Government of the Russian Federation.
The second area is assistance to the Defence Ministry in setting up places for accommodation and training of mobilised personnel in accordance with your instruction. At present, we have organised accommodation for about 60,000 with the assistance of the Russian Federation regions. This is a big job and we will continue to work on it. Today, we also talked with the Defence Ministry to coordinate these efforts in view of the experience gained so far.
Many regions are providing the Defence Ministry with material and technical support. Today, we also spoke at the Government Commission meeting with the Defence Ministry about the need to coordinate this work to make it more effective.
The third area is probably the most important one – social support for the families of mobilised personnel. I am referring to targeted support – material, legal and psychological assistance, sending children to kindergartens and schools with the most convenient location for families of the military personnel. This also includes job seeking and professional development for wives of mobilised personnel. There are also systemic measures – zero payment for kindergartens, afterschool childcare, hobby and sports groups and the like. This practically means zeroing out the eligibility criteria for the payment of children’s allowances and a number of other benefits.
We will conduct all this work consistently with the Government and the regions of the Russian Federation. The overwhelming majority of regions are already taking these measures or have already taken them.
The fourth area that Mr Mishustin has just mentioned concerns joint actions to support the defence industry and assistance in deploying additional capacities to produce everything that the army needs.
One more area is helping the Defence Ministry to build military facilities. A number of regions have already joined this work.
Thank you. That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: I will say a few words in conclusion.
What do I want to say? The work in the format we are now discussing and in which we met has been going on for a week. This is a short interval and, of course, a draft of the Coordination Council’s target task may not yet be ready for objective reasons. Still, I am asking you to get this done as soon as possible.
It is clear that not much time has elapsed, as I have already said. But where should your main focus be?
We need higher rates of work in all areas and the most realistic assessment of the situation, the state of affairs overall. As I have already said in the very beginning, in my opening remarks, this is not only about the special military operation. This is about all our work practically in all areas.
We are trying to do this, to arrange this work in a new way, to make administration more efficient in all areas of our activities since our fight against coronavirus. Now we are facing new challenges that are serious and considerable. I will repeat that this concerns the activities of law-enforcement bodies, the security wing, and the Defence Ministry, but this also concerns the entire civilian component. Therefore, I would like to ask all of you to set your minds on doing meaningful work in the new format.
If we follow standard bureaucratic procedures and hide behind formalities, we will not achieve the desired result in any area. We established a mechanism like the Coordination Council with the express purpose of resolving all issues faster and more effectively.
Furthermore, we cannot just follow previously established standards in our work. They were created who knows when in completely different circumstances. And so, I would like to draw your attention to the following point – standards are important but we should either change them or adapt them quickly to the current conditions – of course, without any violations of the law. That said, we must be guided by the real situation and real needs in different areas.
As far as the special military operation is directly concerned, kits, special gear and other special equipment must not be simply available but must be modern, easy to use and effective. There must be a clear-cut specific plan of work in every area.
Incidentally, the producers – and many are doing this, I know – should receive feedback on the spot. They should know what they are doing and how this affects real life in this or other fields. It is necessary to know the opinion of those for whom our plants and design bureaus work. This concerns not only companies, their management and specialists but, colleagues, this concerns also the members of your Council. You should also receive first-hand information. I know that some of you are already doing this now. I would like to ask you to continue this practice and expand it.
To achieve a fundamentally different, new result, it is not enough to follow the well-trodden path, cooperating only with a narrow circle of customary contractors. I have already said this several times. It is necessary to toughen competition. There should appear new producers – efficient, with modern equipment and ready to work in the required new format and produce products with the quality we need. This concerns medicine. This concerns the construction sector in the broadest sense of this word.
And, of course, support for the regions is a separate issue. I am asking the Finance Ministry jointly with the State Council Commission under Sergei Sobyanin’s guidance to determine the required level of support for the regions that need it more than others in the current conditions. I am hoping this work will be organised just like we managed to organise things up to this point. I have no doubts that it will be organised in the best possible way and will produce a positive result.
Thank you. We will be in constant contact with you on the areas which we gathered here today to discuss.
Thank you.
Topics
Armed Forces
Persons
Mishustin Mikhail
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 25, 2022, 17:35
Text version