Events
Meeting with father of Hero of Russia Vladimir Zhoga
May 9, 2022
13:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With DPR Army Lieutenant Colonel Artem Zhoga, father of the Hero of Russia Vladimir Zhoga.
Vladimir Putin met with Artem Zhoga, the father of Vladimir Zhoga, commander of the Sparta battalion who was killed in Donbass. The President presented to Artem Zhoga the Star of the Hero of Russia awarded to his son posthumously.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Zhoga, today is May 9, Victory Day. I present to you the Star of the Hero for your son. Sadly, he is no longer with us, he has departed our ranks, yet he lived a bright and beautiful life and died a hero, literally shielding with his body women and children, his countrymen, compatriots. He gave his life for the Motherland.
You have my condolences for the loss of your son, but I also congratulate you on raising a true hero, really. It is my wish that this Star of the Hero remains in your family forever.
Artem Zhoga: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Vladimir earned this decoration with all of his actions. The entire eight years – yes, it has been eight years already, he joined a militia on May 2, 2014, before that we used to help the guys who came to us, the Strelkov garrison. He devoted himself completely to the cause.
Indeed, how I raised him had an effect since I grew up when we all honoured our heroes and the memory of our grandfathers. My grandfather is a Great Patriotic War veteran, he finished the war in Koenigsberg as a senior sergeant, he was an artillery forward observer. Volodya, as it turned out, became a reconnaissance office too, not artillery, but а reconnaissance trooper, a battalion commander.
We will make every effort to see our cause through, so that victory is ours. We will win, we will do everything we need to. God willing, we will not lose more friends and family, so that the victory is much less costly. But victory will be ours regardless.
Thank you very much for your support. February 24 is a great day. Yes, it may be terrible in one respect because hostilities began, both civilians and soldiers are dying. Servicemen of the Russian Federation, our entire big country Russia, the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, the militias. But in another respect it was exactly this step, this day, this action, getting out of a terrible suspended situation, the resolution of this entire conflict. Thank you very much – I would like to say that on behalf of my battalion, of the 1st Army Corps [DPR], and all the people of the Donetsk People’s Republic. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: If there had been any chance to resolve this problem through other, peaceful means, we would have certainly taken it. But we were not given a chance, there was no other option.
Our men are fighting courageously, heroically and professionally. All plans are being carried out. The result will be achieved. There is no doubt about it.
My congratulation to you on Victory Day and to your son on the Star of the Hero.
Artem Zhoga: Thank you. And to you as well.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Executive Order awarding title of Hero of Russian Federation to Vladimir Zhoga
March 6, 2022
Additional
Victory Parade on Red Square
May 9, 2022
Vladimir Putin took part in the Immortal Regiment march
May 9, 2022
Topics
Armed Forces
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2022, 13:35
Text versionEvents
Victory Parade on Red Square
President of Russia – Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Federation Armed Forces Vladimir Putin attended a military parade marking the 77th anniversary of Victory in the 1941–1945 Great Patriotic War.
May 9, 2022
11:00
Red Square, Moscow
Victory Parade on Red Square
The parade was reviewed by Defence Minister, Army General Sergei Shoigu
. The commander of the parade was Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces, Army General Oleg Salyukov.
The parade featured 11,000 servicemembers and 131 pieces of military equipment.
The column marching through Red Square comprised 33 parade units of officers, sergeants and soldiers of all branches of the Armed Forces, personnel of other security, defence and law enforcement agencies, cadets and students of military academies, Young Army members and Cossacks. The parade column of female servicemembers included cadets of six military educational institutions this year: the Military University, the Military Academy of Communications, the Military Logistics Academy, the Military-Space Academy, the Military Air and Space Defence Academy, and the Military Academy of Nuclear, Chemical and Biological Protection (NBC Protection Military Academy).
See also
Laying a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
May 9, 2022
Vladimir Putin took part in the Immortal Regiment march
May 9, 2022
The mechanised column, headed by the legendary Т-34–85 Victory Tank, featured Taifun-K, Taifun-VDV and Tigr-M armoured vehicles, BMP-2 Berezhok, BMP-3 and Kurganets-25 infantry fighting vehicles, T-72B3M, Т-90М Proryv and the latest Т-14 Armata tanks, Tornado-G rocket systems, Iskander-M operational tactical missile systems, S-400 Triumf, Buk-M3 and Tor-M2 air defence systems, and Yars strategic systems driving over the cobblestone paving of Red Square. Uran-9 strike robots were carried on truck beds.
* * *
Address by the President of Russia at the military parade
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Fellow Russian citizens,
Dear veterans,
Comrade soldiers and seamen, sergeants and sergeant majors, midshipmen and warrant officers,
Comrade officers, generals and admirals,
I congratulate you on the Day of Great Victory!
The defence of our Motherland when its destiny was at stake has always been sacred. It was the feeling of true patriotism that Minin and Pozharsky’s militia stood up for the Fatherland, soldiers went on the offensive at the Borodino Field and fought the enemy outside Moscow and Leningrad, Kiev and Minsk, Stalingrad and Kursk, Sevastopol and Kharkov.
Today, as in the past, you are fighting for our people in Donbass, for the security of our Motherland, for Russia.
May 9, 1945 has been enshrined in world history forever as a triumph of the united Soviet people, its cohesion and spiritual power, an unparalleled feat on the front lines and on the home front.
Victory Day is intimately dear to all of us. There is no family in Russia that was not burnt by the Great Patriotic War. Its memory never fades. On this day, children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of the heroes march in an endless flow of the Immortal Regiment. They carry photos of their family members, the fallen soldiers who remained young forever, and the veterans who are already gone.
We take pride in the unconquered courageous generation of the victors, we are proud of being their successors, and it is our duty to preserve the memory of those who defeated Nazism and entrusted us with being vigilant and doing everything to thwart the horror of another global war.
Therefore, despite all controversies in international relations, Russia has always advocated the establishment of an equal and indivisible security system which is critically needed for the entire international community.
Last December we proposed signing a treaty on security guarantees. Russia urged the West to hold an honest dialogue in search for meaningful and compromising solutions, and to take account of each other’s interests. All in vain. NATO countries did not want to heed us, which means they had totally different plans. And we saw it.
Another punitive operation in Donbass, an invasion of our historic lands, including Crimea, was openly in the making. Kiev declared that it could attain nuclear weapons. The NATO bloc launched an active military build-up on the territories adjacent to us.
Thus, an absolutely unacceptable threat to us was steadily being created right on our borders. There was every indication that a clash with neo-Nazis and Banderites backed by the United States and their minions was unavoidable.
Let me repeat, we saw the military infrastructure being built up, hundreds of foreign advisors starting work, and regular supplies of cutting-edge weaponry being delivered from NATO countries. The threat grew every day.
Russia launched a pre-emptive strike at the aggression. It was a forced, timely and the only correct decision. A decision by a sovereign, strong and independent country.
The United States began claiming their exceptionalism, particularly after the collapse of the Soviet Union, thus denigrating not just the entire world but also their satellites, who have to pretend not to see anything, and to obediently put up with it.
But we are a different country. Russia has a different character. We will never give up our love for our Motherland, our faith and traditional values, our ancestors’ customs and respect for all peoples and cultures.
Meanwhile, the West seems to be set to cancel these millennia-old values. Such moral degradation underlies the cynical falsifications of World War II history, escalating Russophobia, praising traitors, mocking their victims’ memory and crossing out the courage of those who won the Victory through suffering.
We are aware that US veterans who wanted to come to the parade in Moscow were actually forbidden to do so. But I want them to know: We are proud of your deeds and your contribution to our common Victory.
We honour all soldiers of the allied armies – the Americans, the English, the French, Resistance fighters, brave soldiers and partisans in China – all those who defeated Nazism and militarism.
Comrades,
Donbass militia alongside with the Russian Army are fighting on their land today, where princes Svyatoslav and Vladimir Monomakh’s retainers, solders under the command of Rumyantsev and Potemkin, Suvorov and Brusilov crushed their enemies, where Great Patriotic War heroes Nikolai Vatutin, Sidor Kovpak and Lyudmila Pavlichenko stood to the end.
I am addressing our Armed Forces and Donbass militia. You are fighting for our Motherland, its future, so that nobody forgets the lessons of World War II, so that there is no place in the world for torturers, death squads and Nazis.
Today, we bow our heads to the sacred memory of all those who lost their lives in the Great Patriotic War, the memories of the sons, daughters, fathers, mothers, grandfathers, husbands, wives, brothers, sisters, relatives and friends.
We bow our heads to the memory of the Odessa martyrs who were burned alive in the House of Trade Unions in May 2014, to the memory of the old people, women and children of Donbass who were killed in atrocious and barbaric shelling by neo-Nazis. We bow our heads to our fighting comrades who died a brave death in the righteous battle – for Russia.
I declare a minute of silence.
(A minute of silence.)
Additional
Executive Order on additional measures of support for families of servicepeople and personnel of certain federal agencies
May 9, 2022
The loss of each officer and soldier is painful for all of us and an irretrievable loss for the families and friends. The government, regional authorities, enterprises and public organisations will do everything to wrap such families in care and help them. Special support will be given to the children of the killed and wounded comrades-in-arms. The Presidential Executive Order to this effect was signed today.
I wish a speedy recovery to the wounded soldiers and officers, and I thank doctors, paramedics, nurses and staff of military hospitals for their selfless work. Our deepest gratitude goes to you for saving each life, oftentimes sparing no thought for yourselves under shelling on the frontlines.
Comrades,
Soldiers and officers from many regions of our enormous Motherland, including those who arrived straight from Donbass, from the combat area, are standing now shoulder-to-shoulder here, on Red Square.
We remember how Russia’s enemies tried to use international terrorist gangs against us, how they tried to seed inter-ethnic and religious strife so as to weaken us from within and divide us. They failed completely.
Today, our warriors of different ethnicities are fighting together, shielding each other from bullets and shrapnel like brothers.
This is where the power of Russia lies, a great invincible power of our united multi-ethnic nation.
You are defending today what your fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers fought for. The wellbeing and security of their Motherland was their top priority in life. Loyalty to our Fatherland is the main value and a reliable foundation of Russia’s independence for us, their successors, too.
Those who crushed Nazism during the Great Patriotic War showed us an example of heroism for all ages. This is the generation of victors, and we will always look up to them.
Glory to our heroic Armed Forces!
For Russia! For Victory!
Hooray!
Topics
Armed Forces
Great Patriotic War
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 9, 2022, 11:00
Text version