Events
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko at the Kremlin.
March 11, 2022
14:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko,
Thank you for coming. We meet regularly, exchange information by telephone, and adjust our actions.
First of all, before we get down to our agenda, I would like to congratulate you on the successful referendum on amending your country’s constitution. I know that the turnout was high, and popular support across Belarus very solid.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: More than at the presidential elections, by the way, by 1.5 percent.
Vladimir Putin: Good. I believe the political process that you initiated, the dialogue that you have with your people is extremely important for the situation to remain sustainable and stable. This kind of situation, I mean stability and sustainability, is essential for economic development.
In this regard, I would like to note that last year, our mutual trade increased by more than a third, more than 34 percent, and now that the annual results are being summed up, this is becoming quite obvious.
The overall developments are positive. Of course, there are also problems caused by the current events, the restrictions and sanctions we all know of, and so on. But, as you and I have previously said, we have seen this before – attempts to limit our development, to contain it. Now they are being made on a larger scale; this much is obvious, of course. I am sure that we will get through the difficult period and, in fact, will gain more competencies, find more ways to feel independent and self-sufficient, and will ultimately benefit, as it happened in the previous years.
I will certainly update you on Ukrainian developments and, above all, the progress of the negotiations, which are now being held almost on a daily basis. There are certain positive shifts there, as our negotiators have reported to me. I will tell you about all this in greater detail.
Alexander Lukashenko: Mr Putin, indeed, you and I communicate closely at all times. We had a premonition of hard times. I have told you over the phone more than once: the Russian Federation, and even more so Belarus, is always under sanctions, which have become more extensive today. However, we are already used to this, pardon my language, beastly Western behaviour. Why beastly? Because it is illegitimate, as they are fond of saying, and runs counter to international agreements and treaties, which they and we have joined, in part. So, once again, the third time round: this is just disgraceful from my point of view. I have already been through this, and you have had enough of it as well.
Here is my point. As I walked up to your office, the journalists hollered from a distance: “Will we survive the sanctions or not?” Listen, this is not the right approach to this matter. Today, sanctions represent an opportunity for us. I am a Soviet person, and you hail from the Soviet period as well, and you are well aware that we were always under sanctions, but we lived and moved forward notwithstanding. It is just that due to the current circumstances, which are not even related to sanctions, not enough time has passed, and our people are concerned. It is a good thing that people tend to realise over time what is really going on. It was not us who attacked them, not us, the armed forces of Ukraine started shooting when you and I were at your place two days before that.
Vladimir Putin: Unfortunately.
Alexander Lukashenko: Yes, you and I were in a helicopter, as [we] received updates. They were the ones to start this whole thing. I will now show you the location, which they planned to use as a base to attack Belarus. If there had not been a preventive strike on the positions – four positions – six hours before the operation – I will show you the map that I brought with me – they would have attacked the troops of Belarus and Russia, which were conducting exercises. So, we did not unleash this war, our conscience is clear.
It is good that they started it. Biological weapons, the largest nuclear power plants – they were ready to blow that all up. We are witnessing what is going on in Chernobyl, you asked me to supply electricity …
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Alexander Lukashenko: …but they do not need it, do you see? They just do not need it. They do not care about what is happening there, and we used force to supply electricity to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, as promised.
Vladimir Putin: I am aware of that, thank you.
Alexander Lukashenko: These are their goals. But people are gradually beginning to understand what is what and who is right. Trust me, had we not done this 24 hours in advance, we would have drained this cup to the dregs with enormous losses several days later.
I will say it again: they were going to strike not only at Donbass but had also prepared their positions for a strike against Belarus. And today – as I said yesterday – these foreign mercenaries are walking along the Belarus border to the Chernobyl plant. There are three points here. They want to cut off the routes of moving Russian troops and stab them in the back, as I said. This is the first point. Secondly, they want to attack the positions of the troops that remained in Belarus after their joint exercises with Russia. And they still hope to draw us directly into this slaughter to make us leave the western section unprotected. They are not that simple. We still have to figure out what they want to do in Chernobyl.
So, we have no need to justify ourselves before anyone.
Vladimir Putin: No one is justifying themselves.
Alexander Lukashenko: You – yes. I see that some of our or your people tend to say that they did something wrong. They would have drained more from this cup than in the middle of the last century when the fascists were moving towards us.
So, this is a time of opportunity. If we find our bearings, believe me, in six months or by the end of the year people will forget this happened, in terms of the economy. And we should not say “we will survive the sanctions” or “we will not survive the sanctions.” Look, we have survived them so many times. We must develop our economy. We can do without them. We have everything we need for normal life and work.
I have a suggestion. We have always helped our allies. We helped the Kazakhs, and others as well. You opened your market to some, I will not mention their names because they will take offense. Well, we have to meet somehow in the CSTO and the EAEU. We must unite. Everyone says we must be together. Let us get together. And, believe me, if we add these markets to our cooperation we will forget about the sanctions in a month. So, the CSTO and the EAEU. I am making a proposal. After all, I do have the right to make a proposal…
Vladimir Putin: Of course.
Alexander Lukashenko: I think you will support me. We need to gather around the table in Moscow, sit at the negotiating table and come to terms: we sell this to you and you sell this to us, and build our common economic policy on this foundation.
This is why I came to Moscow today in a normal mood. I am confident we can do it better than we did after collapse of the USSR, and even in the USSR. This is not a situation where we should bother and get worried about some event. We simply need the time – a lot can be seen from a distance.
Vladimir Putin: You are absolutely right. The Soviet Union indeed always lived in conditions of sanctions but developed and achieved enormous success. I said yesterday: even after 1990, the sanctions imposed on the USSR were retained and then extended to the new, recent times. These are CoCom lists, restrictions on high technology. This is how it was done.
Now a massive blow is being dealt at the economy. But practice over the past few years shows that wherever the West imposed restrictions on us, we acquired new competences and restored our old skills at new technological levels. And all this is working. We have of course become stronger in this respect, you are right. This is indeed a time of opportunity when we must strengthen our technological and economic sovereignty.
This is why we are meeting today, we will talk about everything in more detail.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 11, 2022, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with permanent members of Security Council
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, with permanent members of the Security Council.
March 11, 2022
11:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council (held via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chair of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
, and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
We have an issue on our agenda that is not connected with the current events. But first of all, I would like to ask our colleagues attending this meeting if they need to exchange any information on the current events.
Mr Shoigu, please.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Mr President,
We are proceeding as planned, as we have been reporting to you every day this week.
I would like to suggest three issues for discussion and to ask for your approval.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead, please.
Sergei Shoigu: We are receiving a huge number of requests from all manner of volunteers from different countries, who would like to come to the Lugansk and Donetsk people’s republics to take part in the liberation movement, as they say. The largest number of requests, over 16,000, has come from the Middle East. We believe that we should grant these requests, especially since the matter does not concern money but a genuine desire of these people. We know many of them; they helped us fight ISIS in the most difficult period, during the past 10 years. This is the first point.
The second, Mr President. In light of the uncontrollable arms deliveries to Ukraine from all parties (it appears that nobody is looking where and how much of these weapons are being delivered and who they are being issued to), as we have pointed out many times, we suggest turning the air defence systems, for example, man-portable SAMs, and anti-tank missile systems over to the Lugansk and Donetsk people’s republics to build up the combat ability of their militia. In addition, we have seized a large number of Ukrainian weapons, such as tanks, armoured vehicles, all types of small arms, and artillery systems. There are also many Javelins and Stingers. We suggest transferring them to the Lugansk and Donetsk militias as well, so that they can defend their republics more effectively.
Finally, the third and more serious issue, Mr President, and I am asking for your approval. The General Staff has analysed all the measures taken by the West to beef up their forces near Russia’s western borders. New units are arriving every day, and they are deploying them at a time when absolutely nothing threatens them. Nevertheless, we believe that they want to take advantage of this situation and to saturate the area along the border with forces and resources to the maximum extent, and they will undoubtedly want to preserve this situation for a long time.
Consequently, the General Staff is drafting and has nearly completed a plan for reinforcing Russia’s western borders, including, naturally, with those new modern systems and the deployment of military units to defend our western borders.
We are waiting for your instruction, so that we can report on our proposals at the next Security Council meeting or in any other format, for their subsequent approval.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: All right, thank you very much.
Regarding the mobilisation of mercenaries from all over the world and sending them to Ukraine. We can see that Ukraine’s Western sponsors and the Ukrainian regime are not concealing this fact. They are doing this openly and neglecting norms of international law. So, if you see that some volunteers would like to come and help the people in Donbass, especially without pay, then we should meet them halfway and help them relocate to the war zone. This is the first thing.
The second, regarding weapons deliveries, especially those of Western weapons that have been seized by the Russian Army. I, of course, support the decision to hand them over to the military units in the Lugansk and Donetsk people’s republics. Please do this. I am ready to issue any resolution that may be necessary at my end.
The third matter deals with the reinforcement of the Russian Federation’s western borders in view of the NATO countries’ actions in this area and in response to what they are doing. This calls for a separate discussion. I would like to ask you to prepare a report on the issue separately. We will make the decision following its discussion in the near future.
Thank you.
Let us proceed to the current item on the agenda.
<…>
See also
News of the Security Council
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: March 11, 2022, 11:15
Text version