Events
Official event to mark 75th anniversary of Federal Medical-Biological Agency
An official event was held in the State Kremlin Palace to mark the 75th anniversary of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency and the presentation of Russian Federation state awards to agency staff.
November 9, 2022
20:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 16
Speech at the official event to mark the 75th anniversary of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency. Photo: Sergei Bobylev, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I congratulate you, all 100,000 employees, and former workers of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency on its 75th anniversary.
You have a special mission to improve the well-being and quality of life for people. You serve to protect the health of employees in over 700 organisations and enterprises whose work involves the risks of radiation, chemical, biological and other hazards; you supervise the systems that protect both workers and the public who live near such facilities, and you provide assistance in the development and implementation of advanced technologies in various fields. Scientific discoveries and breakthrough solutions ensure progress – yet, they often pose potential risks to life and health.
Such potential negative impact on humans must be promptly identified, researched and prevented. Seeking solutions to these highly complex tasks has been the basis of your agency’s operations since the beginning, and its history is inextricably linked with the milestones in our nation’s technological development. Today, Ms Skvortsova showed me a new book published by the agency; it has thorough, clear and very interesting information on this subject. Indeed, this is part of the history of our country and its healthcare system.
The need for an agency like this arose almost concurrently with the early phases of the strategic nuclear project in our country. Back then, a new dedicated department was created at the USSR Ministry of Healthcare. Scientifically based standards and regulations for radiation safety were developed practically from scratch under its auspices. Following an uncharted path, we have created a system of medical and scientific centres within an incredibly short time, which have made it possible to closely study the risk factors and, most importantly, to build the necessary protection.
The resources and capabilities of these centres were used in the rocket and space industry as well. They gave rise to space medicine and biology.
This work was undeniably meaningful, extremely important and very much sought after. The best traditions of your highly professional, reliable and well-coordinated team took shape back then. All of your employees have invariably been committed to innovation, creative work and achieving specific results that directly impacted all of medical science in the country.
Today’s employees, including doctors, nurses, epidemiologists, hygienists, engineers and dosimetrists, radiobiologists, physicists, chemists, microbiologists and geneticists maintain high standards of service, patriotism and devotion to the cause.
The agency’s activities have always been based on a solid research foundation. Outstanding scholars and organisers, such as Avetik Burnazyan, Gleb Frank, Andrei Lebedinsky, Vasily Parin, Oleg Gazenko, Leonid Ilyin, Rem Petrov and many, many others created, without exaggeration, world-level research schools.
Ongoing fundamental and clinical research at the agency’s 36 research centres go hand in hand with the development of innovative technology, instruments, and medications.
Friends,
Your colleagues, who created this unique agency, which brought together medicine, research, science and management, worked at the forefront of progress and performed their special tasks, making an immense contribution to the development of our nation. Today, you hold exceptional knowledge and competencies. It is gratifying that they are constantly growing, and the agency has become a driving force of today’s advanced achievements.
Today, your managers apprised me of the work of the Federal Centre for Brain and Neurotechnology. It was exciting to see a research and production centre form here, which is, without exaggeration, an international world class facility where innovative medicines and products are developed.
I was likewise impressed by the first-ever hybrid operating room in our country, which is used, as I had the chance to see for myself, for brain surgery. The patients remain conscious in the process, which is a hard thing to absorb for an unprepared mind, and you can talk with the patient. I saw a patient talk to the surgeon with my own eyes. As I was told, they do this to make sure that the areas of the brain responsible for speech and emotions remain unaffected.
In the future, clinics will create medicines for patients based on their own cells. In fact, this work is already underway, as I was told, and the patients’ biological codes and other factors are being preserved. This is what the transition to the future of medicine looks like, which is what we are witnessing.
I think it would take a while to just review what you do here. I would like to emphasise that you have done and are doing a lot to promote national medical science, as I have mentioned twice, and are successfully expanding your area of expertise.
I would like to highlight the agency’s contribution to combating the pandemic. You prevented outbreaks of the virus at nuclear power plants, cosmodromes and other key industrial facilities, quickly developed high-tech tests to identify the virus’s strains and variants, and you created a vaccine.
The agency is always ready to work in extreme conditions, which is also a tradition that you are following. You are rightly called special medical operations forces. You proved this during the difficult months of the pandemic, when you quickly created teams to help many regions. And now, during the special military operation, the agency's mobile units are again working at the forefront saving civilian and military lives, the lives of our heroes. I am aware of the fact that particularly complex surgeries are performed in the field thanks to the professional skills and courage of the agency's specialists.
Colleagues,
Thank you for your loyalty to the cause, the Motherland, and our people. Thank you for the reliability that you show every day working as a tightly-knit team and achieving impressive results.
I wish you every success and all the best and, of course, I am happy to present state awards to your distinguished staff. Of course, there are many more of you than the people who will now come on stage. I congratulate you all on this anniversary.
<…>
Topics
Healthcare
State decorations
Persons
Skvortsova Veronika
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2022, 20:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with FMBA Head Veronika Skvortsova
On the 75th anniversary of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency, Vladimir Putin met with its Head Veronika Skvortsova.
November 9, 2022
18:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
With Head of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency Veronika Skvortsova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Skvortsova, the agency is 75 years old, and I would like to congratulate you and all employees once again and wish you all the best. The agency has made tremendous progress. We will get back to this at the gala event tonight, a bit later. In any case, I would like to thank you and all your staff for the results of your work.
FMBA Head Veronika Skvortsova
: Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for this attention to our team and our veterans.
We did some work in the archives specifically for the 75th anniversary and managed to have a number of documents declassified. We compiled a book with a detailed history of the agency’s development and its main milestones. We cited some very interesting documents. We tried to include the glorious pages both from our history and from today – the main areas of our development. With your permission, we will give it to you. It contains interesting documents.
While studying the archive documents, we reached an interesting conclusion: the entire 75-year history of the agency is the history of our country’s technological progress. The 1940s – atomic and nuclear energy; missile and nuclear research in the late 1950s; space and manned flights in the 1960s; deep-water medicine in the 1970s; chemical disarmament and completely new approaches – chemical centres in the 1990s, and the entire blood system, and the coordination and organisation of top-level sports in the 2000s.
In the last few years, we have substantially expanded our functions as we began working on completely new areas that did not exist before like synthetic hybrid biology, genetic engineering, quantum technology and other new areas.
As a living organism, the agency is evolving, creating functional hubs, and our goal is to ensure priority development – to develop technology and study its influence on the human body, and to create a system of protection against some unpredictable risks and potential threats. The agency is working on this.
I must say that our teachers and predecessors established the fundamental principles of the agency’s activities. This is the fusion of science, medical practice and industry – both experimental and scaling – and the sanitary-epidemiological supervisory authority. This joint structure has a tremendous advantage – it makes it possible to reduce the innovation chain by several times and achieve a result, in addition to testing, validating and scaling it quickly.
Two years of the coronavirus has confirmed this again because during this short span of time, the agency’s centres developed high-precision diagnostic test systems and express tests, with which the Army has been equipped; including tests for self and mutual identification of highly dangerous infections; sensor detection devices and automated indicators of the presence of biological agents – the Army has these as well; different vaccine variants, including a universal vaccine against the coronavirus that has recently proven effective against all strains – from the initial Wuhan strain to the latest Omicron varieties; highly specific antivirus and anti-inflammatory preparations that remain effective during the virus’s mutations; antidotes against composite substances like carbon monoxide.
Our latest registered drug is Russia’s first antidote against carbon monoxide – zincosol. We are already receiving requests for this, not just from the Defence Ministry and the different military branches but also from the Emergencies Ministry, the Russian Guards, the Interior Ministry and our crews who fight fires and in certain high-risk areas.
Today, we have an enormous organisation with a network of 2,500 healthcare and research facilities. They are spread throughout the entire territory and in locations that parallel special zones and strategic facilities. We are alone in managing these territories and providing not only medical but also sanitary and epidemiological assistance.
Recently, starting with the onslaught of the novel coronavirus, we did a great deal to see that the system worked smoothly. In fact, we reorganised the entire network of medical institutions, created medical districts within the agency, and established regional centres to coordinate the entire network. They are located on this territory and provide round-the-clock tele-medical connectivity and quality control. Quality must be the same in the remote areas of the country.
The National Healthcare Project helped us very much. Thanks to this project, we were able to repair 200 organisations in three years. We purchased 55,000 units of equipment, and it is all in use. Of this number, over 3,000 units are heavy equipment costing over a million – tomography, radiography, fluorography and angiography machines. In short, we managed to reequip our network and upgrade our transport system, which is also very important.
We are already seeing the results because we have substantially reduced the fatality rate of our patients in just three years. We have one of the world’s lowest infant mortality rates – 1.7 per 1,000 births. We have a zero maternity mortality rate – not a single case in three years. The general death rate is also below pre-Covid figures, at 12.2 now.
There are two niche specialisations that the agency focuses on: industrial and mobile medicine. As concerns industrial medicine, we extensively cooperate with the Rosatom state corporation, working on nuclear towns. There is also the Integrated Institute of Nuclear Research in Dubna.
We have created model centres of industrial medicine. They are very comfortable, with capabilities for prompt high-level diagnostics of predisposition for diseases, or risk factors. Moreover, we rely on digital technology to monitor the condition of essential staff working at nuclear power stations, and so on.
Of course, I must say a few words about mobile medicine. While it is quite broad and vast, this system is fast-paced and mobile. Our rapid response squads, radiation, chemical, toxicological and biological detection crews arrive where they are needed within two hours.
It takes 24 hours to build mobile medical crews. They get prepared within 24 hours and go to the areas of disease outbreaks, industrial accidents and natural disasters. They provide support for the special military operation. Since February 25, our crews have worked first in the Belgorod and Rostov regions at the border as well as in northern Crimea, and since March, they have worked in the Donetsk People’s Republic, at three sites. Subsequently, our agency staff and Rosatom visited Zaporozhye to develop a monitoring system of the area surrounding the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant.
Over this period, our teams have helped more than 35,000 wounded and affected adults and children, including more than 3,000 children. I would like to note here that our crews operate in armoured vehicles with diesel generators. It helps them to be autonomous and provide primary medical care, of any complexity, including technology-intensive care.
Vladimir Putin: The entire scope of medical care?
Veronika Skvortsova: Yes, this includes resuscitation, surgery and triage facilities, on wheels. Our crews not only save lives but prevent disability by saving limbs from amputation because they perform unique vascular surgery in field conditions.
We maintain intensive cooperation with our strategic partners, primarily Rosatom, Roscosmos and Rostec corporations and competent ministries. Thanks to our joint work, there has not been a single outbreak at any of the nuclear power plants; not a single space launch has been undermined. Over three years, there have been 57 launches from space launch centres, including seven manned and nine cargo space flights.
We keep working and we know what our responsibilities are.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Now let us talk more about specific areas of work.
Veronika Skvortsova: Thank you very much, Mr President.
<…>
Topics
Healthcare
Science and innovation
Persons
Skvortsova Veronika
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2022, 18:25
Text version