Events
Meeting with Government members
The President held a meeting, via videoconference, with Government members.
August 31, 2022
18:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
During а meeting with Government members (via videoconference).
The meeting participants discussed current issues.
In particular, Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Dmitry Grigorenko
reported on the situation with wildfires in some Russian regions. Acting Governor of the Ryazan Region Pavel Malkov
also provided his comments on the issue.
Minister of Science and Higher Education Valery Falkov
spoke about the results of the main stage of the enrolment campaign and the development of a national system of assessing the effectiveness of research papers.
Minister of Education Sergei Kravtsov
reported on the schools’ readiness for the new academic year, and the Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Maksut Shadayev
spoke about the new digital services for the State Services portal.
Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
touched upon issues related to the implementation of the Safe and High-Quality Roads national project and the construction of a new road infrastructure.
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko
reported on the modernisation of the Russian Post offices.
Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak
delivered the main report on the course of connecting properties to gas supply at no charge.
Taking part in the meeting were Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
, deputy prime ministers Viktoria Abramchenko
, Tatyana Golikova
, Alexei Overchuk and Marat Khusnullin
, Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Deputy Prime Minister – Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
, First Deputy Speaker of the Federation Council Andrei Turchak, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
and Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
.
Minister of Energy Nikolai Shulginov
, Governor of the Ivanovo Region, Chairman of the State Council Commission on Healthcare Stanislav Voskresensky
, Nizhny Novgorod Governor, Chairman of the State Council Commission on Environment and Natural Resources Gleb Nikitin
and Gazprom Gazifikatsiya CEO Sergei Gustov were also invited to attend the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
We have scheduled today to discuss issues related to so-called social gas supply. You will remember that in April 2021 we spoke about it and discussed it, after which we made certain plans. Let us review how this work is progressing today.
But before that I would like to speak on current issues. I want to start with battling the wildfires in different regions of the country. I know that Dmitry Grigorenko visited the sites alongside his colleagues and had a look. In some places the situation is changing, and it is generally changing for the better. However, new issues have emerged that require special attention.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 31, 2022, 18:05
Text version