Events
BRICS Summit
Vladimir Putin took part in the 14th BRICS Summit, held via videoconference and chaired by China.
June 23, 2022
16:40
Moscow Region
The meeting’s topic is Foster High-Quality BRICS Partnership, Usher in a New Era for Global Development.
President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro,
President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping
, Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
, and President of the Republic of South Africa Cyril Ramaphosa
are also taking part in the meeting.
The Beijing Declaration of the 14th BRICS Summit formalises the key agreements of the meeting.
* * *
Speech by the President of the Russian Federation at the BRICS Summit
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Xi Jinping, President Ramaphosa, President Bolsonaro, Prime Minister Modi, ladies and gentlemen,
To begin with, I would like to join the previous speakers in thanking President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping and all our Chinese friends for their proactive efforts this year to promote our strategic partnership within BRICS.
The countries that form this group have been seeking to step up their cooperation on all global and regional matters. The BRICS format has been consistently increasing its prestige and international influence. This is an objective process, since the five BRICS countries, as we all know, have immense political, economic, scientific, technical and human potential. We have everything we need to work together and achieve results for ensuring global stability and security, sustained growth and prosperity, and better well-being for our people.
I believe that the topic of today’s meeting, Foster High-Quality BRICS Partnership, Usher in a New Era for Global Development, is very relevant. Considering the complexity of the challenges and threats the international community is facing, and the fact that they transcend borders, we need to come up with collective solutions. BRICS can make a meaningful contribution to these efforts.
We have repeatedly said that challenges like conflict settlement, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, including the criminal use of new technologies, climate change, and the spread of dangerous infections, can only be addressed through joint efforts.
And, of course, it is only on the basis of honest and mutually beneficial cooperation that we can look for ways out of the critical situation that has emerged in the world economy because of the ill-conceived and selfish actions of certain states, which, by using financial mechanisms, are actually shifting their own macroeconomic policy mistakes onto the rest of the world.
We are confident that today, as never before, the world needs the BRICS countries’ leadership in defining a unifying and positive course for forming a truly multipolar system of interstate relations based on the universal norms of international law and the key principles of the UN Charter. In this context, we can count on support from many states in Asia, Africa and Latin America, which are seeking to pursue an independent policy.
I am sure that by tradition the present BRICS Summit will be substantive and effective, and that we will manage to hold a frank and detailed exchange of views on all the most important global and regional issues and various aspects of strategic partnership, including in the extended dialogue format of BRICS+.
Let me stress: Russia is ready to continue promoting close and versatile interaction with all BRICS partners and contributing to the group’s greater role in international affairs.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
See also
XIV BRICS Summit Beijing Declaration
June 23, 2022
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Persons
Bolsonaro Jair
Modi Narendra
Ramaphosa Cyril
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 23, 2022, 16:40
Text version