Events
Video greetings on Rosatom’s 15th anniversary
December 2, 2022
18:55
Vladimir Putin congratulated current and former workers of the domestic nuclear power industry on the 15th anniversary of the Rosatom State Corporation.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
It is a pleasure to congratulate the workers and veterans of the Russian nuclear industry on the 15th anniversary of Rosatom state corporation.
Rosatom united and consolidated industrial companies and scientific schools, and thereby brought nuclear research and practical development to a new level; it contributed to the strengthening of the nuclear shield and the general defence capability of Russia. And, of course, it helped implement major projects to develop safe, reliable and affordable nuclear energy, which means providing new opportunities for social and economic growth and improving the quality of life of our people.
The establishment of a state corporation was an essential decision for the nuclear industry. Let me note that over these years Rosatom’s staff have been addressing their tasks effectively and consistently, achieving serious results that are significant for all of Russia. Some of your achievements are not only record-breaking, but are true breakthroughs, which makes it possible for Russia to be among the world leaders in nuclear energy and ensure its technological independence in a number of important, critical areas.
I would like to stress that today Russia has technologies for the use of atomic energy that provide our country with long-term strategic competitiveness among the member countries of the ‘nuclear club’.
I would like to thank the scientists, engineers, designers, and the entire staff of Rosatom for staying true to your duty, for your devotion to the profession, all those who saved and preserved the continuity of the outstanding traditions of our nuclear industry. Their foundation was laid down by your predecessors’ heroic labour as part of the Soviet nuclear project, including during the Great Patriotic War and the difficult post-war years. Nuclear parity was achieved in the shortest possible time and then ensured for decades. And now the best of these historical traditions still serve the Motherland; they are carried on in your work in the interests of the sovereign development of Russia and the benefit of all our people.
Rosatom makes a huge contribution to improving our deterrence potential, strengthening the power of our nuclear triad, and developing and deploying advanced weapons systems and military equipment. Many of them have no analogues in the world.
Rosatom also performs well in civilian industries. Nuclear power plants are generating more electricity today, partly thanks to the modernisation and commissioning of new power units. International cooperation in this area is developing both on a bilateral basis and through the IAEA. Trust and mutually beneficial relations with our reliable and trusted partners are being strengthened.
Rosatom is playing a key role in implementing the ambitious plans to upgrade the nuclear icebreaker fleet, increase traffic along the Northern Sea Route, and create a modern Arctic port infrastructure. It successfully carries out fundamental and applied research in such advanced scientific areas as nuclear medicine, wind energy, innovative materials, quantum computing and digital software products, and environmental projects, including the disposal of hazardous waste and the elimination of accumulated environmental damage.
Specific developments, often unique solutions proposed by Rosatom specialists, are in great demand in various industries and areas and contribute to the solution of many priority tasks and the achievement of Russia's national development goals. And, what is extremely important, they vividly show that it is on our own, respecting our traditions and relying on domestic scientific and engineering personnel, on workers with the highest qualifications, that we are able to achieve great, impressive results.
I always count on you. I am confident in your professionalism and your responsibility. And I wish all the thousands of employees of Rosatom Corporation, your families and friends, health, success and all the best.
See also
Greetings on the 15th anniversary of Rosatom
December 1, 2022
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 2, 2022, 18:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with people with disabilities and representatives of public organisations
Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with people with disabilities and representatives of public organisations.
December 2, 2022
17:25
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 5
Meeting with people with disabilities and representatives of public organisations (via videoconference).
The meeting was held on the eve of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities annually marked on December 3 as declared by the United Nations.
The discussion focused on the following topics: social integration of people with disabilities, inclusive education, rehabilitation, measures of state and non-state support for people with disabilities, including combat veterans, their employment, development of professional skills and entrepreneurial competencies.
The meeting was also attended by Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
, Minister of Labour and Social Protection Anton Kotyakov
, Presidential Adviser Alexandra Levitskaya
, Presidential Commissioner for Children's Rights Maria Lvova-Belova
, and First Deputy Chair of the State Duma Committee on Science and Higher Education, Vice-President of the Russian Society of the Blind (visually impaired person, group 1 disability) Oleg Smolin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, good afternoon.
Our meeting is taking place on the eve of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, as declared by the United Nations. I believe it would be the right thing to do today to look at and analyse the situation with the rights of people with disabilities, to assess how the authorities are addressing the range of issues pertaining to improving the quality of those people’s lives, including equal opportunities for self-realisation, both professional, labour and personal, as well as creative. And we will do this not by reading reports, but by talking in a lively and informal atmosphere.
I have said this more than once and I would like to repeat: the way we treat people with disabilities serves as an indicator of how mature the society is, its human and civic responsibility – this is a globally accepted truth. We do see that in today’s Russia this attitude has been evolving and continues to change for the better. Society as well as the state are no longer silent about the problems encountered by people with disabilities; they are not turning away or averting their eyes, but, on the contrary, they are paying more and more attention to this subject.
Public organisations and associations and charitable foundations are obviously making a big contribution here. This highly significant and valuable activity, which many Russians decide to do at the call of their hearts, deserves the sincerest gratitude. Many such projects also receive grant support, including through the Presidential Grants Foundation.
I would also like to note that the state social welfare system is increasingly cooperating with the related NGOs, and taking into account their opinion and experience – if this is not the case, please tell us about it today. I believe we are trying to include your best practices in our work. That is what we need to do – to combine the efforts of the state and society, working in a constructive partnership.
I want to note that support for people with disabilities needs to be provided with regard to their individual needs. Public associations are an example of such a proper, correct approach. It is necessary to act not in general, based on some averaged indices, but to help, or at least strive to help an individual in a specific personal situation.
I want to emphasise that there can be no such cases where a person is left all alone with their problems, left locked in their flat or house due to their physical restrictions.
And, of course, to help people with disabilities, it is necessary to use the capabilities of the Russian high-tech sectors.
Contemporary solutions and developments might allow us to alleviate or even completely compensate for, or eliminate physical restrictions that a person might face. But it is possible to significantly improve their quality of life. I hope that our scientists, developers, bioengineers and engineering teams – and we have something to be proud of in this area – will make a significant contribution to the cause.
I would also like to mention another important issue. We spoke about it at a meeting with the mothers of military personnel. Today, we, primarily government agencies at all levels, must pay special attention to doing everything we can to support soldiers and officers who were severely wounded during the special military operation. They must receive everything they need for their medical and social rehabilitation, and to be able to recover as quickly as possible and benefit from the best modern services. These people are real men, the defenders of our country, our heroes who performed their military duty with great valour. Our goal now is to fulfil our duty towards them.
Dear friends,
I think that most of our citizens will agree with me: it is often people with disabilities who show an inspiring example of moral courage and willpower, resilience and unfailing optimism that helps them make their dreams come true despite the hardships. Today we are talking with such people, and you, which is very important, are set to help other people. Knowing the situation from personal experience, you can put forth your ideas, initiatives and solutions. I am confident that implementing them will eventually benefit all of society.
We discussed these problems at length with Ms Golikova before this meeting. And, of course, we will be happy to hear your opinions, this is why we are here today.
Let us begin.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends, we are coming to the end. I would like to address you, all of you who are here virtually today, who have participated in this meeting. All of you are people with an active stance in life, who are achieving notable results, regardless of any difficulties.
But, of course, there are a lot of people who need our and your, our joint support. I have already said – you know this, you have been involved in this work for many years – there are more than 10 million people with disabilities, hundreds of thousands of children.
So, of course, we will have to work together with you to make sure that those who need our support feel that they are not alone, feel the support of the state, the support of people who care, including those who have disabilities. This is very important.
I would like to thank you for what you are doing and to express hope that together we will resolve most, if not all, of the issues that we face in this extremely important area, both for the people and the state as a whole. Thank you and best wishes.
Topics
Disabled individuals
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 2, 2022, 17:25
Text version