Events
Security Council meeting
The President held a meeting of the Russian Federation Security Council at the Kremlin.
February 21, 2022
18:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 17
At the Security Council meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
We are meeting today to discuss the current developments in Donbass.
I will briefly remind you how it all started and how the situation has developed even though you know this very well. But we need general background to help us make appropriate decisions.
So, after the 2014 coup in Ukraine, part of the population did not accept the outcome. Let me remind you that this was an anti-constitutional, blood-shedding coup that killed many innocent people. It was truly an armed coup. Nobody can argue that.
Some of the country’s citizens did not accept the coup. They were residents of Crimea and the people who currently live in Donbass.
Those people declared that they were establishing two independent republics, the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Lugansk People’s Republic. This was the point when the confrontation started between the Kiev officials and the people living on that territory.
In this context, I would like to point out that Russia initially did everything it could to make sure these disagreements could be resolved by peaceful means. However, the Kiev officials have conducted two punitive operations on those territories and, apparently, we are witnessing a third escalation.
See also
News of Security Council
All these years – I want to stress this – all these years, the people living on those territories have been literally tortured by constant shelling and blockades. As you know, the people living on those territories, close to the front line, so to speak, were in fact forced to seek shelter in their basements – where they now live with their children.
A peace plan was drafted during the negotiating process called the Minsk Package of Measures because, as you recall, we met in the city of Minsk. But subsequent developments show that the Kiev authorities are not planning to implement it, and they have publicly said so many times at the top state level and at the level of Foreign Minister and Security Council Secretary. Overall, everyone understands that they are not planning to do anything with regard to this Minsk Package of Measures.
Nevertheless, Russia has exerted efforts and still continues to make efforts to resolve all the complicated aspects and tragic developments by peaceful means, but we have what we have.
Our goal, the goal of today’s meeting is to listen to our colleagues and to outline future steps in this direction, considering the appeals by the leaders of the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Lugansk People’s Republic on recognising their sovereignty, as well as a resolution by the State Duma of the Russian Federation on the same subject. The latter document urges the President to recognise the independence and sovereignty of the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Lugansk People’s Republic.
At the same time, I would like to note that these different matters are, nevertheless, closely linked with matters of maintaining international security, on the European continent in particular, because the use of Ukraine as a tool for confronting this country, Russia, of course, presents a major and serious threat to us.
This is why we have intensified our work with our main partners in Washington and NATO over the past few months and in late 2021, so as to reach an eventual agreement on these security measures and to ensure the country’s calm and successful development under peaceful conditions. We see this as our number one objective and a top priority; instead of confrontation, we need to maintain security and ensure conditions for our development.
But we must, of course, understand the reality we live in. And, as I have said many times before, if Russia faces the threat of Ukraine being accepted into the North Atlantic Alliance, NATO, the threat against our country will increase because of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty that clearly states that all countries in the alliance must fight on the side of their co-member in the event of an aggression against it. But since nobody recognises the will expressed by the people of Crimea and Sevastopol, and Ukraine continues to insist that it is Ukrainian territory, there is a real threat that they will try to take back the territory they believe is theirs using military force. And they do say this in their documents, obviously. Then the entire North Atlantic Alliance will have to get involved.
As you know, we have been told that some NATO countries are against Ukraine becoming a member. However, despite their objections, in 2008, they signed a memorandum in Bucharest that opened the doors for Ukraine and Georgia to join NATO. I have not received an answer to my question as to why they did that. But if they took one step under pressure from the United States, who can guarantee that they will not take another step under pressure? There is no guarantee.
There are no guarantees whatsoever because the United States is known to easily discard any agreements and documents it signs. Still, at least something must be put on paper and formulated as an international legal act. At this point, we cannot even agree on this one thing.
Therefore, I would like to suggest that we proceed as follows: first, I will give the floor to Mr Lavrov who is directly involved in the attempts to reach an agreement with Washington and Brussels, and with NATO, on security guarantees. Then I would like Mr Kozak to report on his findings concerning the talks on the implementation of the Minsk agreements. Then each of you will be able to speak. But at the end of the day, we must decide what we will do next and how we should proceed in view of the current situation and our assessment of these developments.
Mr Lavrov, please.
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
: Mr President, colleagues,
As I reported to the President a week ago, we prepared our assessment of the proposals on the security guarantees that Russia submitted for consideration by the United States and NATO last December.
We received their response in late January. The assessment of this response shows that our Western colleagues are not prepared to take up our major proposals, primarily those on NATO’s eastward non-expansion. This demand was rejected with reference to the bloc’s so-called open-door policy and the freedom of each state to choose its own way of ensuring security. Neither the United States, not the North Atlantic Alliance proposed an alternative to this key provision.
The United States is doing everything it can to avoid the principle of indivisibility of security that we consider of fundamental importance and to which we have made many references. Deriving from it the only element that suits them – the freedom to choose alliances – they completely ignore everything else, including the key condition that reads that nobody – either in choosing alliances or regardless of them – is allowed to enhance their security at the expense of the security of others.
In this context, I sent our Western European colleagues that are part of NATO, EU members, plus Switzerland, detailed letters with our legal analysis of the commitments that the OSCE assumed at the top level in 1999 and 2010, as well as within the framework of Russia-NATO relations, including the 1997 Founding Act and the Rome Declaration, that the participants in the Russia-NATO meeting in Pratica di Mare approved at the top level in 2002.
Our second priority concerns the time we established relations with NATO, in 1997. Considering that the 1997 documents declared that Russia and NATO were no longer opponents and were supposed, in part, to develop a strategic partnership, we suggested returning to the 1997 configuration of NATO forces on the eastern flank. This argument was rejected, like the first one. Indicatively, in their response, some NATO countries immediately urged us to stop “the occupation of Crimea” and “withdraw our troops from the territories of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine.”
In general, these documents expressed support for the Minsk Package of Measures, but this support was absolutely “sterile.” It did not evince any readiness to compel Kiev to implement the provisions of this most important document.
In response to our other demands, including the need to rule out the deployment of arms systems that threaten us near our borders, the Americans expressed the desire to start discussing land-based medium- and short-range missiles. This issue emerged after the United States unilaterally walked out of the relevant treaty with the Russian Federation and ignored, Mr President, your initiatives of two years ago. At that time, you suggested replacing the treaty with at least a declaration on a mutual moratorium on deploying these systems with the relevant verification measures.
In the proposals we have received, the United States and NATO are also suggesting efforts in certain aspects of reducing military risks and on increasing transparency and predictability. These ideas are very close to the proposals we have repeatedly presented to both the Americans and to NATO. However, these issues were removed, separated from the context of the package agreement on security guarantees.
As for bilateral steps, the United States suggests regulating flights of strategic bombers, completing the work on measures to prevent incidents at sea and in the airspace over the sea. It is paying special attention to the transparency of surprise inspections, the resumption of contacts between the militaries, the creation of a civilian hotline, and a discussion of mechanisms to prevent dangerous military incidents.
Overall, our general impression is that our colleagues are trying to separate, as it were, Russia’s proposals, to single out from them some secondary, albeit important for us, points that can help maintain the dialogue and risk reduction but that will not affect the vital interests of the US and its allies in their unlimited expansion of NATO, and that will not limit their freedom to define the configuration of forces in the NATO space and around it.
That said, and this is particularly important in the context of the issue that the President outlined today, the beginning of a dialogue on any issue is contingent on our preliminary steps to deescalate tensions around Ukraine.
In evaluating these responses, we can say that we see some progress. These openings are small but they do exist. The consistency and principled approach that we have been displaying in promoting our initiatives since last December have, of course, shaken the United States and its allies and have compelled them to start working on many Russian proposals on the reduction of military tensions and arms control, which they ignored before.
As I reported to you, Mr President, in this context we believe it is necessary to continue this work. We responded in detail, in the spirit I described, to the documents from Washington and Brussels, but we have sent our response only to the United States for now, partly, primarily because we see NATO’s role as ancillary since they would determine their steps mainly, maybe even exclusively based on Washington’s policies.
By the way, at the recent Munich Security Conference, every Western representative declared their absolute commitment to a unified approach. That unified approach was developed by the United States, so Munich has simply confirmed that we need to negotiate with Washington. This is what we are doing now, sending the response that you approved to the American document.
We believe we have clearly emphasised the most important part – that our proposals are not an a la carte menu to choose from, but they are not an ultimatum either. They actually stem from the absolutely obvious point that the global situation can only be resolved through a comprehensive approach at this stage. You, Mr President, have stressed that the Ukrainian crisis also largely depends on how relations develop between the Russian Federation and the West, led by the United States, so in our response, we underscored the integrity of the original Russian initiative.
We are also ready to discuss the matters that the Americans have recalled, including taking into account our previous proposals. But again, we will do this solely as part of addressing our main concerns: stopping NATO's eastward expansion and considering the configuration of NATO's presence on the European continent, primarily in Central and Eastern Europe, in line with the previous Russia–NATO agreements.
Naturally, our call is not a call but rather a demand, by and large, to explain why the assurances signed at the highest level that no one is to strengthen their security at the expense of others are now being ignored, and more than that, our colleagues from the respective countries are even refusing to explain what they had in mind when their leaders signed the relevant documents, and why now, regardless of what they had in mind, they are not going to fulfill their obligations.
Following your instruction, Mr President, we have sent these documents to Washington. A couple of days later, Secretary of State Anthony Blinken called me to say he had read our document and was ready to meet to discuss it, convey the American reaction and possibly ask some additional questions. With your consent, the meeting has been scheduled for later this week, February 24, in Geneva. We will be guided by the approach that you have approved, the one you defend during the meetings with your colleagues, and which we will certainly promote at the Foreign Ministry level.
Vladimir Putin: I am talking to my colleagues about this in fact, and my American colleague has assured me that they are not going to admit Ukraine tomorrow; moreover, even a moratorium is possible. But they also believe that Ukraine is not ready yet, so my answer was simple: “We do not see this as a concession to us; it is just the implementation of your plans. You believe you need to wait and prepare Ukraine for joining NATO. A moratorium, but not a moratorium for us; you are announcing this moratorium for yourself. So where is the step towards us, to meet us halfway? So far, we have not seen this.”
I spoke twice to the President of France yesterday; actually, we spoke until 2 am this morning, so you could say we talked today. He insists that the US position has undergone some changes. But regrettably, he was unable to answer the question of what those changes are.
I think first we need to see what these changes are, if they exist at all, because your colleagues, to the contrary, publicly claimed as late as yesterday that there were no changes in the principal issues of expansion, of accepting new countries into NATO, including Ukraine. Do I understand it correctly?
Sergey Lavrov: Yes, Mr President, despite the multiplying publications of classified documents – and in the Western media at that – that were discussed by our Western colleagues in the early 90s both among themselves and with us; and even though they clearly indicated that even the West has no intention of expanding NATO to the east, confirming that in talks in a narrow circle; regardless of that, Mr Stoltenberg, the current Secretary General of the North Atlantic Alliance, is still rejecting obvious facts that have been declassified by a British archive and published by Spiegel magazine.
Despite all that, they are adamant in not weakening their “open door” policy, even though you have explained several times that such a policy does not actually exist. There is the possibility under the Washington Treaty of proposing, with unanimous consent from the NATO countries, that a given country join the alliance under two conditions: if it meets the membership qualifications, and secondly, and most importantly, if that country can add a security dimension to the North Atlantic Alliance. We know, of course, that the second critical criteria has long been ignored by NATO.
As to what new ideas the Americans and their allies can offer, we presume that, as you said to President Macron, we first have to understand what the Americans mean. Because our French colleagues tell us that they have an understanding of what Washington can speak to us about. As you agreed with President Macron yesterday, I will have a telephone conversation with the French Foreign Minister today. When we were scheduling the call, I asked the French Foreign Ministry to make sure that he clarifies, even if just a little, what the Americans are ready to discuss with us as they hinted to the French.
Vladimir Putin: I see, thank you.
Take your seat, please, Thank you.
Now, Mr Kozak will report – as I requested – on any developments on the Minsk settlement track, let us call it that. And after that, I would ask the other Security Council members to speak out starting with the real situation, which is now unfolding in the Donetsk People’s Republic.
Please, Mr Kozak.
Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Dmitry Kozak
: Mr President, colleagues,
I will not bore you with the details of the difficult and extremely complicated talks on implementing the Minsk agreements. I will only say that today it has become absolutely obvious that Ukraine and its Western allies do not need Donbass on any conditions. Everything is being done to freeze this conflict and to shift political responsibility onto the Russian Federation. They have already persuaded the public at large, including Ukrainian and Western public opinion, that Russia assumes such responsibility, that it is a party to the conflict, and that this is solely a Russian-Ukrainian international conflict. They also want Russia to assume economic responsibility for supporting Donbass.
You are well aware, as many people are, that we have to spend astronomical sums on humanitarian aid for those territories. I would also like to say that everything that is happening in those territories is reflected in the latest statistics that we received today. Admittedly, we do not always act consistently. However, our measures and the Government’s programme gave a boost to economic activity in Donbass, the number of jobs soared, and unemployment plunged. Today, the region is facing labour shortages, and the number of vacancies exceeds that of jobless persons 2.5 times over. Here is another fact: relocation incentives and the issue of Russian passports run counter to our economic goals. But this is just a comment.
Speaking of Ukraine, it is completely obvious that neither Ukraine, nor the West needs Donbass, they do not want to resolve the conflict; on the contrary, they want to freeze it. They go into a stupor when they hear any hypothetical questions on whether they would like to reintegrate Donbass in Ukraine, so that the government of Ukraine regains control over it on some conditions. They do not know how to answer this question, and they simply keep silent and avert their eyes.
As far as Donbass is concerned, there is probably no need to explain the political and economic reasons that …
Vladimir Putin: No-no, please, tell us about the negotiating process on the Minsk agreements and its current status.
Dmitry Kozak: Its status has remained at zero level since 2015.
Let me remind you that, in accordance with the Minsk Package of Measures, a dialogue on the future regime and the status of Donbass as part of post-conflict Ukraine was supposed to have started the day after the withdrawal of heavy weapons. This withdrawal was completed on March 8, 2015. The dialogue was to have officially begun March 9, while the amendments to the Constitution drafted during this dialogue and coordinated with Donbass, as well as a permanent law on the special status were to have entered into effect by late 2015. This should have been followed by local elections held in accordance with to this status and the settlement of the conflict, with the Russian-Ukrainian border subsequently put under Ukraine’s control.
This is what should have taken place. But the dialogue never started. Ukraine has kept its notion of Donbass' status a deep secret. Obviously, the talks indicate that Ukraine views these areas as its ordinary municipal regions with traditional rights and authority, without any special status.
They have already succeeded in persuading the Ukrainian people that this part of the Minsk agreements is unacceptable. If such a precedent is set, with a certain territory with a special status, special authority and the right to language self-determination, plus its own police as well as its influence on Ukraine’s law-enforcement system, this precedent will be applied to the country’s other regions as well. Such a demand for federalisation or autonomy of Ukraine’s certain regions indeed exists, particularly in the country’s western territories. They have convinced all of Ukraine of it, and they are going to pursue it.
During the Minsk negotiations and in other international formats, they claimed that they are committed to the Minsk agreements, but as soon as they leave the negotiation room, they publicly state that the Minsk agreements are unacceptable, they are a ‘noose around their necks’ and hinder the settlement of the Donbass conflict.
Vladimir Putin: As I have already mentioned, yesterday I spoke with my French counterpart once again. He claims that Ukraine’s incumbent leadership is ready to implement the Minsk agreements and is even introducing certain new constructive ideas on their implementation, such as an election under the arrangement used for the election of German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier
.
Dmitry Kozak: I am saying once again that they have already learned lessons in the past eight years. They have often found themselves in a foolish and absolutely comical situation, and they are openly lying. And these Minsk Agreements, all the documents that have been submitted today by the Contact Group and in the Normandy Format are being interpreted differently. When they see the word “black,” they say it means “white.” I have repeatedly said that, maybe, some passages are written using invisible milk ink; so, let’s use a hot iron to see the ink.
Here is the latest graphic example. On September 17, 2021, they said Russia was a party to the conflict. We told them to write down that Russia was a party to the conflict, as well as obligations it should fulfil under the Minsk Agreements as a party to the conflict. They replied that they knew nothing about these obligations. I approached the Ukrainians saying that they considered Russia an aggressor, and I asked them whether they could formulate their position and thus help the Germans and the French. They replied that they would prefer the French and the Germans to do this. In the long run, the French and the Germans said that it would be better if Russia invented its own obligations under the Minsk Agreements, and that they knew nothing about them. Here is another example. I told them that, to make things easier for them, it was necessary to establish what provisions of the Minsk Agreements Donbass was complying with or not complying with. The thing is that Donbass adopted an offensive position and submitted a multitude of proposals on fulfilling the Minsk Agreements. They said they did not know what provisions Donbass was failing to comply with, that they were unable to formulate this aspect, and that Russia should invent something instead.
Vladimir Putin: Meaning we don’t know what? We don’t know what provisions of the Minsk Agreements Donbass is not complying with.
Dmitry Kozak: Yes, of course. They have no position on any matter. They don’t know what obligations Russia should assume, and what obligations Donbass should fulfil or refuses to fulfil.
Vladimir Putin: Please explain once again about Clauses 9, 11 and 12 stating expressly that decisions should be taken in dialogue with …
Dmitry Kozak: During consultations and discussions.
Vladimir Putin: During consultations and in dialogue with these republics. What do you have to say on this matter?
Dmitry Kozak: They believe that, contrary to what is written there (quite possibly, they had to bring the Cambridge English Dictionary to Berlin the last time), this requirement does not imply direct dialogue. Discussions and consultations do not mean direct dialogue between Donbass and Kiev on political aspects of the peace settlement.
Vladimir Putin: Do you mean that, in their opinion, the provision reading “during dialogue and by agreement” does not mean direct dialogue?
Dmitry Kozak: Yes.
Yesterday, President Macron told you that it was necessary to conduct this dialogue solely within the framework of the Trilateral Contact Group and under OSCE supervision. This, too, is a far-fetched problem because this dialogue is taking place exclusively within the framework of the OSCE-moderated Trilateral Contact Group. This is a far-fetched problem that does not exist.
All of Donbass’ proposals are submitted to the Trilateral Contact Group via the OSCE, and everyone is trying to discuss them under the auspices of the OSCE. But when Donbass representatives say anything, Ukrainian representatives turn away and do not hear them. When asked to reply, they say that they will reply if Russia asks them something. When Russia enquired as to when the Ukrainians would amend the Constitution under the Minsk Agreements (this took place about two years ago in Berlin), the very next day, Ukraine threw such a tantrum, claiming that Russia was interfering in Ukraine’s domestic affairs, and that it was making categorical demands for amendments to be made to Ukraine’s Constitution. “This is the sovereign right of Ukraine, and no one has the right to interfere in this.”
Vladimir Putin: Do we understand you correctly thatthe Kiev authorities do not want to talk to the republics directly? They say they intend to do this in dialogue with Russia, but as soon as Russia suggests steps towards settlement as part of the Minsk Agreements, they throw a tantrum, claiming that Russia is interfering in Ukraine’s internal affairs?
Dmitry Kozak: Yes, this is obvious. Absolutely. They are pushing us to respond and start suggesting something regarding political terms, and after that, they would begin accusing us of interference.
Vladimir Putin: Yes. And what about [their claim] that the Minsk Agreements should be interpreted in such a way that it is the current Kiev official authorities, rather than the unrecognised republics, that should introduce initiatives and proposals on how to implement the Minsk Package of Measures?
Dmitry Kozak: Yet another recent proposal that emerged in Berlin on February 10 was a specimen of legal cretinism. Since the case in point is Ukraine’s legislation, the initiatives on amending its laws should come solely from Ukraine. All right, the initiatives are coming. But if the proposals or amendments to these initiatives are outlandish, like Ukraine’s delirious proposals you were discussing with President Macron yesterday, and if Donbass suggests some alternative proposals, will they be considered? “We do not know,” they say and lower their eyes. Obviously, this is the entirety of their latest tactics – they are showing their ingenuity. It is silly, awkward and ridiculous, but they display it constantly, improvising new schemes as they proceed.
The gist of the matter is that no one can discuss Ukrainian proposals on amending their Constitution and laws because this is the sovereign right of Ukraine. If Russia wants to do it, this is a case of Russia interfering in their internal affairs, if Donbass wants to – they are separatists, who have no right either. This is the stand taken by Ukraine, which France unexpectedly supported yesterday.
Vladimir Putin: Do I understand you correctly that the key provision of the Minsk Agreements that all these amendments, including constitutional amendments, should be coordinated with the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, is being disregarded?
Dmitry Kozak: Yes, at this point it is being disregarded. Certain schemes are invented, schemes, as I said, belonging to the realm of legal cretinism, like “let us plant something in the Trilateral Contact Group; we don’t talk to anyone, we don’t hear Donbass; if Russia suggests something, we will see how to respond.” More likely than not, they will respond the way described by you and me. And later, the OSCE will allege that this has been coordinated within the black box known as the Trilateral Contact Group. This is a trumped-up procedure.
Vladimir Putin: Ok. Then I have what I can call a final question for this part. Tell me and our colleagues your opinion as to whether or not the Kiev authorities will implement the Minsk Agreements?
Dmitry Kozak: They will not – ever – if the developments follow their normal course. Let me reiterate: as is obvious, they do not want, either with Minsk, or without Minsk to bring Donbass back into Ukraine.
Vladimir Putin: Ok.
Dmitry Kozak: It is useful.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, all right.
Dmitry Kozak: Mr President, now or later? I just wanted to answer the question about whether or not to annex Donbass; what we should do about this later and how to use it at talks with the West, because this is a very serious problem.
Vladimir Putin: Let us now confine ourselves to your remarks…
Dmitry Kozak: Ok. But later, I think, we will discuss it separately.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Kozak, we will confine ourselves to your remarks on the negotiating process within the framework of the Minsk Agreements and to your assessment of prospects. We have understood that, in your opinion, there are no prospects for the development of the negotiating process within the framework of the Minsk Agreements.
Thank you.
(Addressing Alexander Bortnikov.) Now I would like to ask Director of the Federal Security Service, Mr Bortnikov, to report on the situation at the border, including with regard to border officers recording the number of people crossing our border, refugees, and on developments at the border.
Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
: Mr President,
We can see that the situation is deteriorating in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics. We see that shelling is intensifying, threatening primarily the lives of civilians. Because of these circumstances, refugees have started moving towards the Russian border, and as of 9 am this morning, around 68,500 civilians had entered Russia from the DPR and LPR, according to statistics provided by the border service.
First, we are maintaining direct contact with representatives of the government bodies in the regions that are dealing with refugees.
Second, we can see that, as a result of intensified shelling by Ukrainian forces in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, there have been shells landing in the Russian Federation, first of all, in the Rostov Region. Given this circumstance, the Federal Security Service and the Russian Investigative Committee are carrying out the necessary operative investigative measures.
Last night, two Ukrainian sabotage groups approached the border with Russia in the Lugansk region and Mariupol. As a result of the battle fought by our border troops, supported by the Defence Ministry, these two sabotage groups were destroyed. One military of the Ukrainian troops was captured. Further steps are being taken.
Overall, the situation at the border on our side is stable. We are monitoring the border and providing military reinforcements, including to the Border Service. We are working together with law enforcement agencies and the Defence Ministry.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Shoigu, I know that the Defence Ministry is monitoring the situation in the conflict zone. Please report.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Mr President, colleagues,
Reporting on latest developments, more than 107 shelling incidents were reported between February 19 and 20, including over 70 by heavy weapons, 122-mm weapons and mortar guns.
Due to the activity of both the sabotage groups and artillery in Donetsk, the city has been left practically without water. Around 90 percent of the city has no water supply.
As for Lugansk, two-thirds of the city has no gas. In fact, all people living at the contact line have been forced to evacuate. A small segment of the population that has to stay and work there, at continuous cycle facilities, has been affected, unfortunately. Literally today, a miner was killed at a bus stop by an artillery round.
In the past 24 hours or overnight, to be more precise, more than 40 shelling incidents were reported across all areas, in total, in a single night. Based on our data and expert reports, we believe that the attacks are not random but targeting specific sites. It is fire for effect. They understand what they are hitting.
Mr President, in this context, I would like to briefly report that as of today, a total of 59,300 troops are concentrated at the border with the Lugansk and Donetsk regions from the Ukrainian side.
As a result of your negotiations and lengthy talks on security measures, troops and heavy arms (especially heavy arms) were supposed to be withdrawn from the contact line to shooting distance, in order to prevent fire from reaching populated areas. Today, we can see troops being concentrated and heavy weapons returning to their previous positions.
What is the current situation? They have 59,300 troops, Tochka-U launchers, 345 tanks, 2,160 armoured vehicles, 820 artillery guns and mortar launchers, and 160 multiple-launch rocket systems, including Smerch.
I cannot help but point out that these forces do not include those nationalist battalions that have been talked and written about so much and which, based on our completely objective data, are poorly controlled by the country's leadership and commanders on the ground. Naturally, they act as they see fit – hence the sabotage groups that break through in different locations and commit terrorist attacks such as blowing up vehicles, damaging power lines, substations, gas pipelines and more.
Outside the context of the developments in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, I would like to draw the Security Council members’ attention to Mr Zelensky’s statement in which he said that Ukraine wants to regain its status as a nuclear power. “Power” may not be the right word. A nuclear country.
This is extremely dangerous for several reasons. First, over the long years when Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union, resources were created in Ukraine to build both nuclear weapons and launchers. By the way, since tactical and nuclear weapons are based in Germany, the same weapons could easily emerge in Ukraine as well – using existing launchers. I mentioned Tochka-U. Its launcher is easily compatible.
They possess the equipment and technology and they have specialists who, in our estimation, have capabilities far greater than those of Iran and North Korea – the countries which are discussed at all levels in the context of agreements on their de-nuclearisation.
Then, there are those nationalist battalions scattered all over Ukraine. I think it is no secret that they are to a great extent in control of the situation in specific locations, cities and regions of Ukraine. I am talking about extremely radical nationalist views, extremely radical calls concerning Donetsk, Lugansk, Crimea and, of course, our country.
The overall situation is extremely tense. Since February 14, we have noted a more active phase and efforts to bring forces to the highest level of combat readiness. It means that considerable and more serious provocations are in the making or at least they are preparing to deal with the Donbass issue with the use of force. This has been indicated by changes in the deployment of heavy machinery and artillery guns, and changes in radio frequencies used for their communications. Then, of course, there is everything connected or connected in the first place with frontline activity – I am talking about shelling. It has been a long time since anything like this happened. We are very close to the 2014–2015 situation.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Colleagues,
I think we are all aware of the status of the negotiating process on the Donbass settlement. It has been described in sufficient detail by the Federal Security Service Director and the Defence Minister.
We need to give an answer to the question that was raised a long time ago and is included in the State Duma’s appeal to the head of state. This question concerns recognising the Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic.
We see the threats and blackmail coming from our Western colleagues, and we understand where this step stems from, but we understand the situation at hand as well.
Mr Medvedev.
Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
: Mr President, colleagues,
The President and the speakers have just described the overall situation related to ensuring our country’s security. I am referring to NATO and the United States’ attempts to definitively redraw the map of the world in their favour, advance to our borders and practically put us in a hopeless situation. These are, in fact, the red lines the President spoke about at various forums and meetings.
Speaking about the situation surrounding the Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic, it is quite clear – at least, I think so, and our colleagues have just confirmed this in their remarks – essentially, Ukraine does not need these territories. In any case, they are a bargaining chip in the tug of war over the status of Ukraine. The residents of these territories have not received any support or assistance from the Ukrainian authorities for many years now. On the contrary, they are subjected to mass reprisals, such as shelling attacks, depriving them of basic amenities and violating basic human rights.
Overall, based on the unfolding developments, we can conclude that the package of measures included in the Minsk Agreements will not get implemented. Moreover, for obvious reasons, even with pressure from foreign countries such as France and Germany, in all likelihood, the current Ukrainian regime, namely the incumbent President, does not need this implementation, since it will prevent him from being re-elected to the post of president, which is what he wants more than anything else in the world.
So, he is not interested in complying with the existing agreements which you, Mr President, just mentioned, when both he and his National Security and Defence Council Secretary are openly saying that these are harmful agreements, and then keep pulling the wool over our Western colleagues’ eyes during personal meetings or telephone conversations as they issue ritual statements about their willingness to implement these very Minsk agreements.
We are facing a complex dilemma regarding the recognition of these two territories, which are ready to seek such recognition, and which have made the corresponding requests to us. Our parliament has adopted a resolution to that effect as well.
I remember 2008 quite well, so I can speak based on some experience, since I had to make a difficult decision to recognise South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent subjects of international law, that is, to give them, at least from our point of view, international legal standing. We know what happened next. I am not going to talk about this now. There is a vast number of difficulties, and there are problems. All the while, it is quite clear that it made it possible, let us face it, to save the lives of hundreds of thousands of people who live within this territory, and, to a certain extent, it was a lesson for NATO and a number of European countries, a lesson that no one can do this to the Russian Federation.
Today, the situation is much more complicated, but in some ways, maybe even simpler. I will explain. It is more complicated, because the scale of the potential conflict is incomparable to what we dealt with in 2008. This is absolutely so based on the analysis that has just been carried out by the Defence Minister. On the other hand, in some ways it is easier for us, because back then we did not know what the response would be. There were all kinds of conversations. I had conversations, and Mr Putin talked with President Bush as well. Now we know what will happen, we are aware of all the problems and difficulties, as well as the proposals concerning sanctions, which are being repeatedly, from all directions, so to say, broadcast to us.
We understand that the pressure will be overwhelming, but we understand how to resist this pressure. In this sense, I think the bitter experience of the past 14 years was beneficial for us.
This experience showed that it will be difficult for us. Here, I will give my personal assessment – but after a while, with skilful management of the situation, and, I emphasise, I think we have learned how to do this under the leadership of the President – the tension that is now vibrating around our country will subside one way or another. Not quickly, not all at once, but this is how human history works: sooner or later, they will get tired of this situation and will themselves ask us to resume discussions and talks on all issues of ensuring strategic security.
Here, you know, it is like that line from the famous book by Bulgakov: never ask for anything, they will come to you themselves and offer everything. This is about how developments unfolded in 2008–2009. They came to us and suggested resuming relations across the board. Let us face it, Russia means a lot more than Ukraine for the international community and our friends in the United States and the European Union, and everyone understands this, including the Ukrainians.
So, of course, we always need to avoid sensitive issues, but still, the rules of the genre are such that after a while, most likely, the situation associated with the recognition of the respective territories will start cooling down. We know this from previous experience.
I would like to point out something that has not yet been discussed today. An elementary but also extremely important matter. About 800,000 citizens of the Russian Federation are currently residing within the borders of these two unrecognised entities. Mr President, I am not even talking about the Russian world, which we take care of, help and support in every possible way, but citizens of the Russian Federation. Citizens who live in another country. They are our people. I want to emphasise that they are not only people who speak Russian, they are citizens of our country. Everyone is aware that, for example, when US citizens run into any problem at all, when just one is abducted somewhere, the Americans conduct special operations. I think that we, as the Security Council members, cannot ignore this fact.
So, I think that if the situation follows the path that I just laid out and there are no signs of improvement in sight, then the only way out of this situation in this case will be to recognise the legal standing of the respective territories, which is entirely within the purview of the President. Judging by the signs that we are now seeing, in all likelihood this situation will not improve.
You said, Mr President, I think it is crucial for our society, the citizens of our country, to express the appropriate sentiment, since we all live in the same house, and all this is connected with major processes and the military component. But, as far as I know, the vast majority of citizens of our country would support such step.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Medvedev, and I want to say this to all of you now: each of you knows that I did not discuss anything with anyone in advance. I want to emphasise this. I did not ask for your opinion in advance. What is happening now is happening, so to say, unrehearsed, because I wanted to know what your opinion is without any prior preparation. I believe this to be very important, and I would like the State Duma Speaker to express his opinion on this issue.
Mr Volodin.
State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
: Mr President, colleagues,
The State Duma has taken a decision and, Mr President, we have appealed to you about it. This decision was not spontaneous, as it was thoroughly studied and weighed and we had several versions, however, the majority – 351 out of 450 Parliament members – voted in favour of sending the President a request to recognise the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Lugansk People’s Republic. The Parliament members who supported another version were of the same opinion but they proposed to first forward the draft resolution to the Foreign Ministry and other governmental bodies.
We believed the situation in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics was critical and our decision was primarily prompted by humanitarian considerations because people were dying and there was no end to it.
Parliament members believe that Kiev has deliberately engaged in foot-dragging and sabotaging the Minsk Agreements. It is unacceptable. Of course, when taking this decision, we were cognisant of the fact that our citizens, our compatriots live there. One million two hundred thousand people have applied for Russian citizenship. About 800,000 people have been granted Russian citizenship but many more are still seeking to acquire it. So, our first priority is defending citizens of our country, our compatriots.
We are also guided by the consideration that the situation has not changed in eight years. More than that – despite even the involvement of the representatives of other countries in the efforts to resolve this issue, Kiev has sabotaged all the obligations it assumed earlier.
This is why, Mr President, we are asking you to consider the State Duma’s appeal and recognise the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Ms Matviyenko.
Speaker of the Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko
: Mr President, colleagues,
For seven years now, a humanitarian catastrophe has been unfolding before our eyes in the centre of Europe. All these years we witnessed genocide, blockade, non-payment of pensions and benefits, and shelling. For seven years, Russia has consistently advocated at all levels for a political and diplomatic solution to the internal Ukrainian conflict, in fact, for putting an end to the civil war, at all platforms, including through parliaments. Nobody heard us.
The alleged implementation of the Minsk Agreements was nothing but going through the motions. The endless meetings of the Contact Group were pointless and useless. And it became clear that the Kiev puppet regime not only did not want to but was unable to bring any solution to it. After all, look, at the snap of [President] Biden
’s finger, the prosecutor general was removed from office that same day. In the same way, if they wanted this conflict in Ukraine to end, all they had to do was direct the Kiev government accordingly, and it would have immediately sat down at the negotiating table and fulfilled the Minsk Agreements.
Ukraine needs this conflict in order to somehow justify the worsening economic and social situation, as it attributes everything to an alleged war. The West needs this conflict as an anti-Russian project, where Ukraine is just a bargaining chip – it thinks not about its national interests, but rather about how to please its handlers. That is why the Minsk Agreements have not been implemented.
Let us remember what the residents of Lugansk and Donetsk wanted. They were called separatists and terrorists. They said: give us economic autonomy, we are tired of feeding Kiev, and give us the right to speak our native Russian. The usual demands, the usual European values that everyone is talking about at length.
Instead, there were two attempts at an armed seizure of the territory with a large number of fatalities and an organised humanitarian disaster. Where is the OSCE? Where are the guarantors who signed the agreement prior to the coup?
The heads of Germany, France and Russia got together and adopted decisions. Not a single attempt was even made to act on them. The Steinmeier formula seemed to be a straightforward document laying out a sequence of actions.
You see, for Ukraine it is just territory, whereas for Russia, for us, these people are citizens and human beings: Russians, Russian speakers, or Ukrainians, it doesn’t matter. And the worst thing the West is doing is trying to pit the two Slavic fraternal nations against each other. The residents of Donetsk and Lugansk have become hostages to this anti-Russian project.
How much longer can we try to talk sense into them? How much longer can we explain things? Ultimately, you have to come up with a decision. We had enough patience and enough arguments to have Ukraine comply with the Minsk Agreements and to follow a peaceful, diplomatic path. Clearly, this is not part of their plan. They do not want to do so and will not. We must call a spade a spade.
The residents of Lugansk and Donetsk rebelled against the bloody anti-state coup when the first draft law submitted to the Rada was the draft law abolishing the Russian language. Our partners are saying that, indeed, the Minsk Agreements must be complied with since they are an international document adopted by the UN. But instead of forcing Ukraine to do so, they are wagging their finger at us all the time and threatening us with sanctions, instead of forcing, so to speak, Ukraine to peace. Instead, they are conducting the military development of Ukraine and supplying all types of weapons there, including offensive weapons. Does it occur to them that nationalists, or Bandera followers, which is the right way to call them, might come to power there tomorrow and use these weapons? Will that add stability to Europe? Is this the way to peaceful and stable development in Europe?
It seems to me that this has already become simply a moral duty for us in Russia. You know, I just cannot watch these videos and I think the majority feels the same. Poor women, elders that are weeping and children who are sitting in basements and taking their classes, and the entire international community is looking at all this through a blindfold. It is impossible to talk about any European values after this. This is inhuman and immoral. I will say it again – it is impossible to tolerate this any longer. It is necessary to make a decision. If recognition of the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics would resolve this problem, and this is obvious, it means we must take this step.
Threats of sanctions are, of course, painful and unpleasant but, look, we are called the aggressor and yet we have never announced sanctions against Ukraine. We, along with Belarus, continue supplying it with electricity and petrol that is used to fuel tanks bound for the border with the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics. We supply gas and many other things. Therefore, I believe it is time to make a decision without delay.
Mr President, I would like to say just a few words, maybe I am too emotional and please excuse me but what harm has Russia inflicted on Ukraine in the 30 years of their separate existence as independent states? What harm has it caused?
We supplied it with almost free gas. We did not interfere in its affairs unlike the United States that said it had spent US$5 billion on regime change. We kept out. The United States wanted Yushchenko to be elected illegitimately in the third round, and he was. We did not influence the elections and did not interfere in them – we wanted the Ukrainians to elect their president themselves.
During all these 30 years, the illegal transfer of Crimea and Sevastopol to Ukraine was never on the agenda. Yes, we felt bad about this; it stung. We knew that over 200 years ago, Catherine the Great decreed that Crimea and Sevastopol can join the Russian Empire of their own free will. Remember that the Black Sea Navy has been based there for over 200 years, that is, for longer than some states have existed. Yet, we did not raise this issue even once.
We were compelled to defend the people because the Banderite units were moving ahead. Even such acts of intimidation as the shooting of unarmed police on Maidan and the burning of people in Odessa would have paled. It is hard even to imagine what they could have done in Crimea and Sevastopol. This is why Russia supported the free choice of Crimea and Sevastopol. So, recognise this fact! We acted strictly in accordance with the UN Charter where the right of nations to self-determination overrides everything else. There is a ruling of the UN Court on Kosovo and the like. All these arguments are well known.
Yes, they wanted to see a NATO flag in Sevastopol instead of the flag of the Russian Black Sea Fleet but we have no moral right to allow this. This is why this issue is closed altogether. This must be recognised.
I believe it is time to make a decision. It is simply immoral to continue discussing it to death and dragging it out, while pretending that something is being done.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Patrushev.
Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
: Mr President, colleagues,
The issue we are discussing today is extremely pressing but let me take a broader view of it.
In its doctrinal documents, the United States calls Russia an enemy, just like China, and practically everywhere they are operating from this standpoint.
I would also like to emphasise that we are saying we are holding talks with NATO, the OSCE, the European Union, and the leaders of European countries. Talks must be held, but talks must be held with the United States. Everyone else will do as the United States says, including NATO, the OSCE, the European Union, and so on. So, the United States should be the main negotiator that we engage with.
Look, Mr Lavrov is saying they want to set up a meeting between President Biden and President Putin. They are not saying what they want to discuss. Just a meeting to be able to say that we maintain a dialogue and so on. We have no need for talks for their own sake. We need to achieve specific goals. They are hiding their specific goal, which is none other than the collapse of the Russian Federation. Our goal is to protect our country’s territorial integrity and sovereignty.
With regard to the conflict in Ukraine and related developments, everyone is aware and convinced this was not organised by the people of Ukraine. The people of Ukraine are against this. They are intimidated and forced to follow this path. It was manufactured by the United States, just like during the conflict with Georgia in 2008, when the decisions were made. So, the United States is the only country to talk with.
With regard to the Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic, the people have had enough, and continuing to torture them is not an option. The [State] Duma made an absolutely right move to adopt these decisions. I understand that we must support the decision that the Duma recommends that you, as President, adopt. I think that if we do this, we will protect the people who live there, and we should take care precisely of this, and give them the opportunity to work in peace. To reiterate, what is happening there is a local conflict orchestrated by the United States.
Therefore, I motion that it would be advisable to accept the proposal of the American side, President Biden's proposal to have talks during which it would be possible to say that “you did everything you could to harm the people of the Lugansk People's Republic and the Donetsk People's Republic, and we must support them. If you can stop this bloodbath soon – say, two or three days – we will maintain a dialogue with you. Then, let the people make progress, and let them agree and implement not the “road map” of the Minsk Agreements, but a plan so that there is a tight deadline for each item.” But I am convinced that the answer you receive will be negative, they will not agree with you. So, recognition is the only option.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Mishustin.
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
: Mr President, Security Council members,
We have been preparing for months for a potential response to the recognition of the DPR and the LPR. I am primarily referring to import substitution and an analysis of all risks that we may face if we adopt these decisions. We have thoroughly reviewed these risks and we understand the issues linked with restrictions on the import of high technology and many other problems. We have also established relevant groups in our ministries and departments under the guidance of the Finance Ministry. They will decide how we should respond if we make these decisions, and what decisions should be made jointly, in particular, with the Central Bank.
It is clear to us that, as the situation will continue to deteriorate (as you said today, Mr President) Russia cannot afford to lose pace. Today we must exacerbate this situation and meet it head on, because this is the only way to catalyse import substitution and fulfil the national development goals you set before us.
We support these efforts and will do all we can to ensure the economic development and wellbeing of our people.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: So, you support the appeal by the State Duma?
Mikhail Mishustin: I have now heard what Mr Patrushev had to say. I think it is necessary to get our position across, to catalyse it, if you will, and if there is no progress, to recognise the LPR and the DPR.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Naryshkin.
Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
: Mr President,
We have seen for a long time, and I periodically inform you about this, that the current leaders of Ukraine are not going to honour the Minsk agreements.
The President of Ukraine says in his circle that he can say anything he wants about the Minsk agreements for the record. He can say he adheres to the Minsk agreements whereas in reality he is not going to fulfil them. The same is typical of his conversations with Western leaders. If there is no press around, he says bluntly that “we simply cannot abide by the Minsk agreements.”
Power is more precious to the current Ukrainian authorities than peace, the restoration of peace and the end of this conflict between the Kiev regime and Donbass.
With regard to the developments in Ukraine, I can say that this notorious thesis about the Russian leadership’s plans to “invade” Ukraine was born within the walls of the US State Department and has been whipped up to such proportions that it is already reminiscent of war propaganda. This was done in order to try to provoke the Kiev regime into another attempt to resolve the problem of Donbass by military means.
Of course, we simply have no right to let this happen. As mentioned earlier, there are about four million people who live there and who want to speak Russian and to think in Russian; they want to celebrate their history and the heroes who defended this land for many, many years.
Thinking back to what Russia did seven or eight years ago, when it simply responded to the desire of the people of Crimea and Sevastopol to live as part of Russia – and this decisive opinion was expressed by the residents of Crimea and Sevastopol during the most democratic procedure, which is the nationwide referendum – I believe that in the current situation we are simply obligated to act in this way.
I would agree with Mr Patrushev’s proposal that our, so to speak, Western partners can be given a last chance in order for them to force Kiev to make peace and comply with the Minsk Agreements as soon as possible. Otherwise, we must take the decision that is being discussed today.
Vladimir Putin: What does “otherwise” mean? Do you propose starting a negotiating process or recognising the sovereignty of the republics? Speak plainly.
Sergei Naryshkin: I will support the proposal to recognise…
Vladimir Putin: Will support or support? Speak plainly, Mr Naryshkin.
Sergei Naryshkin: I support the proposal…
Vladimir Putin: Just say yes or no.
Sergei Naryshkin: That is what I am saying: I support the proposal to have the Donetsk and Lugansk people's republics become part of the Russian Federation.
Vladimir Putin: We are not talking about this, we are not discussing this. We are talking about recognising their independence or not.
Sergei Naryshkin: Yes. I support the proposal to recognise their independence.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Please take your seat. Thank you.
Mr Kolokoltsev.
Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
: Mr President, colleagues,
Looking back in history, one can always find analogies to certain processes that we are currently observing.
The point of view of the current and former Kiev authorities is that they were forced to sign the Minsk agreements in a difficult situation back then, because they were driven into a corner, and that the Minsk agreements are akin to an act of capitulation. Well, then, “colleagues,” let us draw a historical parallel and remember May 1945. Supposedly, Germany signed the Act of Surrender and failed to comply with it for seven years citing a variety of circumstances such as getting into pockets in the streets of Berlin and the like. This is an analogy.
So, what can we talk about today when our foreign partners invite us to play a fair game at the negotiating table? We can play a fair game only when we have honest and trustworthy partners at the table. However, when you have partners with marked cards who are trying their best to justify official Kiev’s hypocritical and deceitful position, what is there to discuss then? Who is inviting us to start this dialogue? We are encouraged to do so by our foreign partners who, having presented a vial with white powder, proceeded to bomb Iraq, change the legitimate government, and drown the people in blood. Having done that, they are inviting us to a dialogue.
There is no doubt that these republics and their legal standing must be recognised. But I have an amendment to make. They should be recognised within the administrative boundaries which these republics and the peoples of these republics had prior to their occupation by the armed forces of Ukraine, namely, from Mariupol to those historical borders.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Regarding the negotiating process, Mr Kozak reported it is at a dead end. We have been negotiating for eight years now. This is what we are talking about.
All plenipotentiary envoys are present here. I would like to ask one of you, say, Mr Shchegolev, to speak out. Of course, I expect you to express your own position, but we will assume that our other colleagues adhere to approximately the same viewpoint. Should any envoy feel the need to add something and express their point of view, they are welcome to do so.
Please, go ahead.
Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Central Federal District Igor Shchegolev
: Mr President, members of the Security Council,
We all remember 2014 and the pain our people felt with regard to ongoing developments in Crimea and what began to unfold in Donbass and Lugansk. We remember the public demanding the recognition of these two republics back then. We are aware of the courage and patience the political leadership of the country needed in order to give the new Ukrainian authorities a chance to use their own resources to heal this wound on the body of Ukraine and its people, who are, in fact, one people with us.
Over this period, the second President is nearing the end of his first term in office, and the first President has already been charged with high treason for signing the Minsk agreements. We hear the Ukrainian Nazis describe what will happen to the people of these republics after the Ukrainian government returns there. They directly threaten to destroy them and subject them to vetting and physical execution.
Today, a force is concentrated on the borders of Ukraine, which is comparable in its offensive firepower to the Guderian-led grouping, which went from Bryansk to Donbass in August 1941. At the same time, Russia is accused of being overly aggressive, perhaps because it is too aggressive in protecting the lives of our brothers.
I believe we should recognise Lugansk and Donbass.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I would like to ask all those present here today, are there any other points of view or special opinions on this matter? None? I know the position of the Foreign Ministry, the Defence Ministry, and the Federal Security Service. Nevertheless, I would like to hear what you have to say.
Mr Lavrov, you have the floor.
Sergey Lavrov: Mr President, we have already heard all the arguments in favour of this decision. Wherever you look, it is the West that is doing all this, and the Ukrainian leadership takes pleasure in carrying it all out despite all the agreements and all the precedents in settling internal conflicts.
The conflict in eastern Ukraine is the only conflict where one side is refusing to talk to the other, and the West fully supports this. Take Cyprus, the “turkish republic of northern Cyprus.” The negotiating process there is in progress, with the UN playing a mediating role. Take Mali, where the French are now facing some challenges. The government is talking to the rebels there. The same applies to Ethiopia. The European Union oversees dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. Everyone is seeking to assist these processes.
There is this aspect here expressed in the term “genocide,” which you, Mr President, have mentioned during your press conference with Olaf Scholz. The history of the creation of Kosovo, an all but independent entity established without any referendum, is about genocide. The fact that they are now trying to prop up an overtly neo-Nazi, Banderite regime in Kiev is also a manifestation of genocide. In both cases, this is an attack against Slavs, against Orthodox Christians, and in Ukraine’s case, against everything Russian. This runs counter to the Ukrainian constitution, as we all know very well. However, this has not prevented the Kiev regime from adopting one law after another to enforce ever tighter requirements for banning the Russian language not only in schools and universities, but in everyday life.
I do hope that in this way, we will send a strong signal to the Russian world. For eight years now, we could not stay indifferent to the humiliating treatment our compatriots, our citizens have been facing. For this reason, I do not see any other alternative.
As for the proposals to give the West two or three days more to come to its senses, this is a matter of opinion, but there is no doubt that the West will not change its position. Everyone understands this.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Shoigu.
Sergei Shoigu: Mr President,
It is 2022, eight years since people, young and old, started learning how to live in basements. Not a single one of these clauses has been implemented during this period. Only one was implemented, when the forces were disengaged and the Ukrainian units were withdrawn. But the Ukrainians did this in the hope that one day they would be strong again and solve the problem by force.
The way the picture develops, or the next page in this book is massive weapons deliveries to Ukraine. These deliveries are continuing with obscure aims and obscure motives. As it is, they have enough weapons for a lot of conflicts, large and small, which they stage with enviable persistence in the Lugansk and Donetsk republics.
But every day, four, five, and even occasionally eight flights arrived with weapons, modern weapons. And when they say that these are for defence, I can hardly imagine that Javelins are defensive weapons. In the meantime, there are more Javelins there than in some NATO countries. This is evidence that no one is going to comply with the Minsk accords and that everyone is getting ready to solve the problem by force.
The situation being what it is, I think they have left us with no other choice. Therefore, I say expressly “yes”: yes, we should recognise them.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Alexander Bortnikov: Mr President, the Lugansk People’s Republic and the Donetsk People’s Republic, the people in these republics have for several years looked to the Russian Federation and asked it to protect them in the hope of living, working and bringing up children, in the hope of living in peace. I am absolutely certain that we should help them to implement their right and defend them.
I am confident that a decision to recognise these republics will facilitate this. We will help realise this hope, definitely.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Zolotov.
Director of the Federal Service of the National Guard Troops of the Russian Federation and Commander-in-Chief of the National Guard Troops of the Russian Federation Viktor Zolotov
: Mr President, colleagues, the German Chancellor has said that talk about genocide in Donbass is laughable. You know, I would like to hear what he would say if German citizens were living in that territory and if they were subjected to artillery fire every day. What would he say and would he chuckle about this?
Mr Macron said (you have just spoken with him and told us what he said) that the Ukrainian authorities were ready to implement the Minsk accords. Our colleagues are absolutely right in saying that this is not the case. Moreover, Zelensky states that they are ready to create nuclear arsenals. So, what will we come to?
At the same time, we do not border on Ukraine, we have no border with Ukraine. This is the Americans’ border, because they are the masters in that country, while the Ukrainians are their vassals. And the fact that they are rushing weapons to Ukraine and are trying to create nuclear arsenals will backfire on us in the future.
Recognising these republics is certainly a must. I would like to say that we should go ever further to defend our country.
That is all I have to say. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Fine. Thank you.
Colleagues, I have heard your opinions. The decision will be made later today.
I would like to thank you for this meeting, for this conference.
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Persons
Bortnikov Alexander
Kolokoltsev Vladimir
Kozak Dmitry
Lavrov Sergei
9 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: February 21, 2022, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Russian Paralympic team
Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with the Russian Paralympic team ahead of the XIII Paralympic Winter Games.
February 21, 2022
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
Meeting with the Russian Paralympic team (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, my friends.
You know that less than a month ago I had a meeting with our Olympic team before its departure for the Winter Games in Beijing. The games ended yesterday, and we have begun the countdown to the next landmark sports festival, the Paralympic Winter Games.
It is a unique event in terms of its inspiring power and the positive emotions stirred in us by our Paralympic athletes.
Every time we see you perform and listen to your success stories, we admire the strong will and the grit it takes not just to overcome your health problems but also to gain a new foothold and a new meaning in life through high performance sports.
Therefore, first of all, I would like to thank you and your teammates for making this choice, for your commitment to sport and for your fortitude, resolve and ability to hold up well, which gives confidence and hope to millions of people, making it possible to expand the boundaries of what is possible.
Also, I would like to congratulate you on being chosen for the Russian Paralympic team. Representing one’s country at these competitions is a pinnacle and a coveted dream for any athlete. You have conquered this pinnacle, and there is only one last leap to the potential triumph, the Paralympic medal podium. It is the focal point of years of hard work to gain experience and mastery, of your sporting career.
The Beijing Paralympic Games are not the first Paralympics for some members of our team, and your resolve to press ahead despite your past achievements, to keep training and to scale new heights commands our deep respect.
This ongoing quest for excellence is one of the main traits of Paralympic athletes. You have a deep understanding of the great value of humanism, human dignity and equal opportunities. It is not surprising that the Paralympic Games are noted for a special, exceptionally kind atmosphere. It is created by your warm hearts, mutual support, sincerity and openness.
The Paralympic lesson of empathy, equality and fairness is important today more than ever. The world urgently needs the powerful uniting force of sport, the noble principles of competition, your positive energy and proactiveness that transform society and teach moral maturity to people, especially young people.
I am certain that the upcoming games will contribute to strengthening friendship and mutual understanding, and Paralympians, with their strong spirit, will not only impress their fans with spectacular performances and setting new records but will also help them to realise what is really important and significant in life.
Dear friends,
I know that you are still at training facilities, preparing to step out into the arenas and onto the tracks of Beijing. Your mentors, coaches, medical professionals and other staff are constantly working hard next to you.
I would like to address them and express gratitude for their tireless efforts to take care of our remarkable talented athletes, for their top professionalism and sincere love for their jobs and their charges. The success of these athletes in competitions and the fact that they have been selected for the national team is, to a large extent, your achievement.
I am glad to have this opportunity to wish a happy birthday to one of your colleagues, Alexander Larionov, the coach of the Russian national sledge hockey team, who is participating in this videoconference today.
Also with us is Presidential Aide Igor Levitin, who is also celebrating his birthday today, his 70th.
Mr Larionov and Mr Levitin, please accept our sincere greetings. We wish you success and new achievements. And, of course, good health, which is particularly important these days.
Dear friends, we support each and every one of you. Therefore, I would like to ask all Paralympians to strictly comply with all the medical rules established by the Paralympic Games’ Organising Committee and our experts due to the pandemic. The Government, the Federal Medical-Biological Agency and the Russian Paralympic Committee must do their best to provide the right conditions.
I am confident that you are ready for this competition. Russian athletes have always been among the leaders of Paralympic sports. But we know very well that in sport, it is important to be mindful of the competition. Our competitors are strong and their journey to these Paralympic Games has been equally challenging. They have overcome themselves and external circumstances. They have been training just as strenuously and tirelessly. Therefore, they will be fighting tooth and nail to earn the title of the best of the best.
I believe that you are ready to meet any challenge with honesty and grace, and win, showing your strong will and your best abilities. You should know that here in Russia, everybody loves you. We are very proud of you and will be cheering you on.
I wish you great success and brilliant performances at the XIII Paralympic Games in Beijing.
<…>
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2022, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Address by the President of the Russian Federation
February 21, 2022
22:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
Address by the President of the Russian Federation
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Citizens of Russia, friends,
My address concerns the events in Ukraine and why this is so important for us, for Russia. Of course, my message is also addressed to our compatriots in Ukraine.
The matter is very serious and needs to be discussed in depth.
The situation in Donbass has reached a critical, acute stage. I am speaking to you directly today not only to explain what is happening but also to inform you of the decisions being made as well as potential further steps.
I would like to emphasise again that Ukraine is not just a neighbouring country for us. It is an inalienable part of our own history, culture and spiritual space. These are our comrades, those dearest to us – not only colleagues, friends and people who once served together, but also relatives, people bound by blood, by family ties.
Since time immemorial, the people living in the south-west of what has historically been Russian land have called themselves Russians and Orthodox Christians. This was the case before the 17th century, when a portion of this territory rejoined the Russian state, and after.
It seems to us that, generally speaking, we all know these facts, that this is common knowledge. Still, it is necessary to say at least a few words about the history of this issue in order to understand what is happening today, to explain the motives behind Russia’s actions and what we aim to achieve.
So, I will start with the fact that modern Ukraine was entirely created by Russia or, to be more precise, by Bolshevik, Communist Russia. This process started practically right after the 1917 revolution, and Lenin and his associates did it in a way that was extremely harsh on Russia – by separating, severing what is historically Russian land. Nobody asked the millions of people living there what they thought.
Then, both before and after the Great Patriotic War, Stalin incorporated in the USSR and transferred to Ukraine some lands that previously belonged to Poland, Romania and Hungary. In the process, he gave Poland part of what was traditionally German land as compensation, and in 1954, Khrushchev took Crimea away from Russia for some reason and also gave it to Ukraine. In effect, this is how the territory of modern Ukraine was formed.
But now I would like to focus attention on the initial period of the USSR’s formation. I believe this is extremely important for us. I will have to approach it from a distance, so to speak.
I will remind you that after the 1917 October Revolution and the subsequent Civil War, the Bolsheviks set about creating a new statehood. They had rather serious disagreements among themselves on this point. In 1922, Stalin occupied the positions of both the General Secretary of the Russian Communist Party (Bolsheviks) and the People’s Commissar for Ethnic Affairs. He suggested building the country on the principles of autonomisation that is, giving the republics – the future administrative and territorial entities – broad powers upon joining a unified state.
Lenin criticised this plan and suggested making concessions to the nationalists, whom he called “independents” at that time. Lenin’s ideas of what amounted in essence to a confederative state arrangement and a slogan about the right of nations to self-determination, up to secession, were laid in the foundation of Soviet statehood. Initially they were confirmed in the Declaration on the Formation of the USSR in 1922, and later on, after Lenin’s death, were enshrined in the 1924 Soviet Constitution.
This immediately raises many questions. The first is really the main one: why was it necessary to appease the nationalists, to satisfy the ceaselessly growing nationalist ambitions on the outskirts of the former empire? What was the point of transferring to the newly, often arbitrarily formed administrative units – the union republics – vast territories that had nothing to do with them? Let me repeat that these territories were transferred along with the population of what was historically Russia.
Moreover, these administrative units were de facto given the status and form of national state entities. That raises another question: why was it necessary to make such generous gifts, beyond the wildest dreams of the most zealous nationalists and, on top of all that, give the republics the right to secede from the unified state without any conditions?
At first glance, this looks absolutely incomprehensible, even crazy. But only at first glance. There is an explanation. After the revolution, the Bolsheviks’ main goal was to stay in power at all costs, absolutely at all costs. They did everything for this purpose: accepted the humiliating Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, although the military and economic situation in Kaiser Germany and its allies was dramatic and the outcome of the First World War was a foregone conclusion, and satisfied any demands and wishes of the nationalists within the country.
When it comes to the historical destiny of Russia and its peoples, Lenin’s principles of state development were not just a mistake; they were worse than a mistake, as the saying goes. This became patently clear after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.
Of course, we cannot change past events, but we must at least admit them openly and honestly, without any reservations or politicking. Personally, I can add that no political factors, however impressive or profitable they may seem at any given moment, can or may be used as the fundamental principles of statehood.
I am not trying to put the blame on anyone. The situation in the country at that time, both before and after the Civil War, was extremely complicated; it was critical. The only thing I would like to say today is that this is exactly how it was. It is a historical fact. Actually, as I have already said, Soviet Ukraine is the result of the Bolsheviks’ policy and can be rightfully called “Vladimir Lenin’s Ukraine.” He was its creator and architect. This is fully and comprehensively corroborated by archival documents, including Lenin’s harsh instructions regarding Donbass, which was actually shoved into Ukraine. And today the “grateful progeny” has overturned monuments to Lenin in Ukraine. They call it decommunization.
You want decommunization? Very well, this suits us just fine. But why stop halfway? We are ready to show what real decommunizations would mean for Ukraine.
Going back to history, I would like to repeat that the Soviet Union was established in the place of the former Russian Empire in 1922. But practice showed immediately that it was impossible to preserve or govern such a vast and complex territory on the amorphous principles that amounted to confederation. They were far removed from reality and the historical tradition.
It is logical that the Red Terror and a rapid slide into Stalin’s dictatorship, the domination of the communist ideology and the Communist Party’s monopoly on power, nationalisation and the planned economy – all this transformed the formally declared but ineffective principles of government into a mere declaration. In reality, the union republics did not have any sovereign rights, none at all. The practical result was the creation of a tightly centralised and absolutely unitary state.
In fact, what Stalin fully implemented was not Lenin’s but his own principles of government. But he did not make the relevant amendments to the cornerstone documents, to the Constitution, and he did not formally revise Lenin’s principles underlying the Soviet Union. From the look of it, there seemed to be no need for that, because everything seemed to be working well in conditions of the totalitarian regime, and outwardly it looked wonderful, attractive and even super-democratic.
And yet, it is a great pity that the fundamental and formally legal foundations of our state were not promptly cleansed of the odious and utopian fantasies inspired by the revolution, which are absolutely destructive for any normal state. As it often happened in our country before, nobody gave any thought to the future.
It seems that the Communist Party leaders were convinced that they had created a solid system of government and that their policies had settled the ethnic issue for good. But falsification, misconception, and tampering with public opinion have a high cost. The virus of nationalist ambitions is still with us, and the mine laid at the initial stage to destroy state immunity to the disease of nationalism was ticking. As I have already said, the mine was the right of secession from the Soviet Union.
In the mid-1980s, the increasing socioeconomic problems and the apparent crisis of the planned economy aggravated the ethnic issue, which essentially was not based on any expectations or unfulfilled dreams of the Soviet peoples but primarily the growing appetites of the local elites.
However, instead of analysing the situation, taking appropriate measures, first of all in the economy, and gradually transforming the political system and government in a well-considered and balanced manner, the Communist Party leadership only engaged in open doubletalk about the revival of the Leninist principle of national self-determination.
Moreover, in the course of power struggle within the Communist Party itself, each of the opposing sides, in a bid to expand its support base, started to thoughtlessly incite and encourage nationalist sentiments, manipulating them and promising their potential supporters whatever they wished. Against the backdrop of the superficial and populist rhetoric about democracy and a bright future based either on a market or a planned economy, but amid a true impoverishment of people and widespread shortages, no one among the powers that be was thinking about the inevitable tragic consequences for the country.
Next, they entirely embarked on the track beaten at the inception of the USSR and pandering to the ambitions of the nationalist elites nurtured within their own party ranks. But in so doing, they forgot that the CPSU no longer had – thank God – the tools for retaining power and the country itself, tools such as state terror and a Stalinist-type dictatorship, and that the notorious guiding role of the party was disappearing without a trace, like a morning mist, right before their eyes.
And then, the September 1989 plenary session of the CPSU Central Committee approved a truly fatal document, the so-called ethnic policy of the party in modern conditions, the CPSU platform. It included the following provisions, I quote: “The republics of the USSR shall possess all the rights appropriate to their status as sovereign socialist states.”
The next point: “The supreme representative bodies of power of the USSR republics can challenge and suspend the operation of the USSR Government’s resolutions and directives in their territory.”
And finally: “Each republic of the USSR shall have citizenship of its own, which shall apply to all of its residents.”
Wasn’t it clear what these formulas and decisions would lead to?
Now is not the time or place to go into matters pertaining to state or constitutional law, or define the concept of citizenship. But one may wonder: why was it necessary to rock the country even more in that already complicated situation? The facts remain.
Even two years before the collapse of the USSR, its fate was actually predetermined. It is now that radicals and nationalists, including and primarily those in Ukraine, are taking credit for having gained independence. As we can see, this is absolutely wrong. The disintegration of our united country was brought about by the historic, strategic mistakes on the part of the Bolshevik leaders and the CPSU leadership, mistakes committed at different times in state-building and in economic and ethnic policies. The collapse of the historical Russia known as the USSR is on their conscience.
Despite all these injustices, lies and outright pillage of Russia, it was our people who accepted the new geopolitical reality that took shape after the dissolution of the USSR, and recognised the new independent states. Not only did Russia recognise these countries, but helped its CIS partners, even though it faced a very dire situation itself. This included our Ukrainian colleagues, who turned to us for financial support many times from the very moment they declared independence. Our country provided this assistance while respecting Ukraine’s dignity and sovereignty.
According to expert assessments, confirmed by a simple calculation of our energy prices, the subsidised loans Russia provided to Ukraine along with economic and trade preferences, the overall benefit for the Ukrainian budget in the period from 1991 to 2013 amounted to $250 billion.
However, there was more to it than that. By the end of 1991, the USSR owed some $100 billion to other countries and international funds. Initially, there was this idea that all former Soviet republics will pay back these loans together, in the spirit of solidarity and proportionally to their economic potential. However, Russia undertook to pay back all Soviet debts and delivered on this promise by completing this process in 2017.
In exchange for that, the newly independent states had to hand over to Russia part of the Soviet foreign assets. An agreement to this effect was reached with Ukraine in December 1994. However, Kiev failed to ratify these agreements and later simply refused to honour them by making demands for a share of the Diamond Treasury, gold reserves, as well as former USSR property and other assets abroad.
Nevertheless, despite all these challenges, Russia always worked with Ukraine in an open and honest manner and, as I have already said, with respect for its interests. We developed our ties in multiple fields. Thus, in 2011, bilateral trade exceeded $50 billion. Let me note that in 2019, that is before the pandemic, Ukraine’s trade with all EU countries combined was below this indicator.
At the same time, it was striking how the Ukrainian authorities always preferred dealing with Russia in a way that ensured that they enjoy all the rights and privileges while remaining free from any obligations.
The officials in Kiev replaced partnership with a parasitic attitude acting at times in an extremely brash manner. Suffice it to recall the continuous blackmail on energy transits and the fact that they literally stole gas.
I can add that Kiev tried to use dialogue with Russia as a bargaining chip in its relations with the West, using the threat of closer ties with Russia for blackmailing the West to secure preferences by claiming that otherwise Russia would have a bigger influence in Ukraine.
At the same time, the Ukrainian authorities – I would like to emphasise this – began by building their statehood on the negation of everything that united us, trying to distort the mentality and historical memory of millions of people, of entire generations living in Ukraine. It is not surprising that Ukrainian society was faced with the rise of far-right nationalism, which rapidly developed into aggressive Russophobia and neo-Nazism. This resulted in the participation of Ukrainian nationalists and neo-Nazis in the terrorist groups in the North Caucasus and the increasingly loud territorial claims to Russia.
A role in this was played by external forces, which used a ramified network of NGOs and special services to nurture their clients in Ukraine and to bring their representatives to the seats of authority.
It should be noted that Ukraine actually never had stable traditions of real statehood. And, therefore, in 1991 it opted for mindlessly emulating foreign models, which have no relation to history or Ukrainian realities. Political government institutions were readjusted many times to the rapidly growing clans and their self-serving interests, which had nothing to do with the interests of the Ukrainian people.
Essentially, the so-called pro-Western civilisational choice made by the oligarchic Ukrainian authorities was not and is not aimed at creating better conditions in the interests of people’s well-being but at keeping the billions of dollars that the oligarchs have stolen from the Ukrainians and are holding in their accounts in Western banks, while reverently accommodating the geopolitical rivals of Russia.
Some industrial and financial groups and the parties and politicians on their payroll relied on the nationalists and radicals from the very beginning. Others claimed to be in favour of good relations with Russia and cultural and language diversity, coming to power with the help of their citizens who sincerely supported their declared aspirations, including the millions of people in the south-eastern regions. But after getting the positions they coveted, these people immediately betrayed their voters, going back on their election promises and instead steering a policy prompted by the radicals and sometimes even persecuting their former allies – the public organisations that supported bilingualism and cooperation with Russia. These people took advantage of the fact that their voters were mostly law-abiding citizens with moderate views who trusted the authorities, and that, unlike the radicals, they would not act aggressively or make use of illegal instruments.
Meanwhile, the radicals became increasingly brazen in their actions and made more demands every year. They found it easy to force their will on the weak authorities, which were infected with the virus of nationalism and corruption as well and which artfully replaced the real cultural, economic and social interests of the people and Ukraine’s true sovereignty with various ethnic speculations and formal ethnic attributes.
A stable statehood has never developed in Ukraine; its electoral and other political procedures just serve as a cover, a screen for the redistribution of power and property between various oligarchic clans.
Corruption, which is certainly a challenge and a problem for many countries, including Russia, has gone beyond the usual scope in Ukraine. It has literally permeated and corroded Ukrainian statehood, the entire system, and all branches of power.
Radical nationalists took advantage of the justified public discontent and saddled the Maidan protest, escalating it to a coup d'état in 2014. They also had direct assistance from foreign states. According to reports, the US Embassy provided $1 million a day to support the so-called protest camp on Independence Square in Kiev. In addition, large amounts were impudently transferred directly to the opposition leaders’ bank accounts, tens of millions of dollars. But the people who actually suffered, the families of those who died in the clashes provoked in the streets and squares of Kiev and other cities, how much did they get in the end? Better not ask.
The nationalists who have seized power have unleashed a persecution, a real terror campaign against those who opposed their anti-constitutional actions. Politicians, journalists, and public activists were harassed and publicly humiliated. A wave of violence swept Ukrainian cities, including a series of high-profile and unpunished murders. One shudders at the memories of the terrible tragedy in Odessa, where peaceful protesters were brutally murdered, burned alive in the House of Trade Unions. The criminals who committed that atrocity have never been punished, and no one is even looking for them. But we know their names and we will do everything to punish them, find them and bring them to justice.
Maidan did not bring Ukraine any closer to democracy and progress. Having accomplished a coup d'état, the nationalists and those political forces that supported them eventually led Ukraine into an impasse, pushed the country into the abyss of civil war. Eight years later, the country is split. Ukraine is struggling with an acute socioeconomic crisis.
According to international organisations, in 2019, almost 6 million Ukrainians – I emphasise – about 15 percent, not of the wokrforce, but of the entire population of that country, had to go abroad to find work. Most of them do odd jobs. The following fact is also revealing: since 2020, over 60,000 doctors and other health workers have left the country amid the pandemic.
Since 2014, water bills increased by almost a third, and energy bills grew several times, while the price of gas for households surged several dozen times. Many people simply do not have the money to pay for utilities. They literally struggle to survive.
What happened? Why is this all happening? The answer is obvious. They spent and embezzled the legacy inherited not only from the Soviet era, but also from the Russian Empire. They lost tens, hundreds of thousands of jobs which enabled people to earn a reliable income and generate tax revenue, among other things thanks to close cooperation with Russia. Sectors including machine building, instrument engineering, electronics, ship and aircraft building have been undermined or destroyed altogether. There was a time, however, when not only Ukraine, but the entire Soviet Union took pride in these companies.
In 2021, the Black Sea Shipyard in Nikolayev went out of business. Its first docks date back to Catherine the Great. Antonov, the famous manufacturer, has not made a single commercial aircraft since 2016, while Yuzhmash, a factory specialising in missile and space equipment, is nearly bankrupt. The Kremenchug Steel Plant is in a similar situation. This sad list goes on and on.
As for the gas transportation system, it was built in its entirety by the Soviet Union, and it has now deteriorated to an extent that using it creates major risks and comes at a high cost for the environment.
This situation begs the question: poverty, lack of opportunity, and lost industrial and technological potential – is this the pro-Western civilisational choice they have been using for many years to fool millions of people with promises of heavenly pastures?
It all came down to a Ukrainian economy in tatters and an outright pillage of the country’s citizens, while Ukraine itself was placed under external control, directed not only from the Western capitals, but also on the ground, as the saying goes, through an entire network of foreign advisors, NGOs and other institutions present in Ukraine. They have a direct bearing on all the key appointments and dismissals and on all branches of power at all levels, from the central government down to municipalities, as well as on state-owned companies and corporations, including Naftogaz, Ukrenergo, Ukrainian Railways, Ukroboronprom, Ukrposhta, and the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority.
There is no independent judiciary in Ukraine. The Kiev authorities, at the West’s demand, delegated the priority right to select members of the supreme judicial bodies, the Council of Justice and the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, to international organisations.
In addition, the United States directly controls the National Agency on Corruption Prevention, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the High Anti-Corruption Court. All this is done under the noble pretext of invigorating efforts against corruption. All right, but where are the results? Corruption is flourishing like never before.
Are the Ukrainian people aware that this is how their country is managed? Do they realise that their country has turned not even into a political or economic protectorate but has been reduced to a colony with a puppet regime? The state was privatised. As a result, the government, which designates itself as the “power of patriots” no longer acts in a national capacity and consistently pushes Ukraine towards losing its sovereignty.
The policy to root out the Russian language and culture and promote assimilation carries on. The Verkhovna Rada has generated a steady flow of discriminatory bills, and the law on the so-called indigenous people has already come into force. People who identify as Russians and want to preserve their identity, language and culture are getting the signal that they are not wanted in Ukraine.
Under the laws on education and the Ukrainian language as a state language, the Russian language has no place in schools or public spaces, even in ordinary shops. The law on the so-called vetting of officials and purging their ranks created a pathway for dealing with unwanted civil servants.
There are more and more acts enabling the Ukrainian military and law enforcement agencies to crack down on the freedom of speech, dissent, and going after the opposition. The world knows the deplorable practice of imposing unilateral illegitimate sanctions against other countries, foreign individuals and legal entities. Ukraine has outperformed its Western masters by inventing sanctions against its own citizens, companies, television channels, other media outlets and even members of parliament.
Kiev continues to prepare the destruction of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. This is not an emotional judgement; proof of this can be found in concrete decisions and documents. The Ukrainian authorities have cynically turned the tragedy of the schism into an instrument of state policy. The current authorities do not react to the Ukrainian people’s appeals to abolish the laws that are infringing on believers’ rights. Moreover, new draft laws directed against the clergy and millions of parishioners of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate have been registered in the Verkhovna Rada.
A few words about Crimea. The people of the peninsula freely made their choice to be with Russia. The Kiev authorities cannot challenge the clearly stated choice of the people, which is why they have opted for aggressive action, for activating extremist cells, including radical Islamist organisations, for sending subversives to stage terrorist attacks at critical infrastructure facilities, and for kidnapping Russian citizens. We have factual proof that such aggressive actions are being taken with support from Western security services.
In March 2021, a new Military Strategy was adopted in Ukraine. This document is almost entirely dedicated to confrontation with Russia and sets the goal of involving foreign states in a conflict with our country. The strategy stipulates the organisation of what can be described as a terrorist underground movement in Russia’s Crimea and in Donbass. It also sets out the contours of a potential war, which should end, according to the Kiev strategists, “with the assistance of the international community on favourable terms for Ukraine,” as well as – listen carefully, please – “with foreign military support in the geopolitical confrontation with the Russian Federation.” In fact, this is nothing other than preparation for hostilities against our country, Russia.
As we know, it has already been stated today that Ukraine intends to create its own nuclear weapons, and this is not just bragging. Ukraine has the nuclear technologies created back in the Soviet times and delivery vehicles for such weapons, including aircraft, as well as the Soviet-designed Tochka-U precision tactical missiles with a range of over 100 kilometres. But they can do more; it is only a matter of time. They have had the groundwork for this since the Soviet era.
In other words, acquiring tactical nuclear weapons will be much easier for Ukraine than for some other states I am not going to mention here, which are conducting such research, especially if Kiev receives foreign technological support. We cannot rule this out either.
If Ukraine acquires weapons of mass destruction, the situation in the world and in Europe will drastically change, especially for us, for Russia. We cannot but react to this real danger, all the more so since, let me repeat, Ukraine’s Western patrons may help it acquire these weapons to create yet another threat to our country. We are seeing how persistently the Kiev regime is being pumped with arms. Since 2014, the United States alone has spent billions of dollars for this purpose, including supplies of arms and equipment and training of specialists. In the last few months, there has been a constant flow of Western weapons to Ukraine, ostentatiously, with the entire world watching. Foreign advisors supervise the activities of Ukraine’s armed forces and special services and we are well aware of this.
Over the past few years, military contingents of NATO countries have been almost constantly present on Ukrainian territory under the pretext of exercises. The Ukrainian troop control system has already been integrated into NATO. This means that NATO headquarters can issue direct commands to the Ukrainian armed forces, even to their separate units and squads.
The United States and NATO have started an impudent development of Ukrainian territory as a theatre of potential military operations. Their regular joint exercises are obviously anti-Russian. Last year alone, over 23,000 troops and more than a thousand units of hardware were involved.
A law has already been adopted that allows foreign troops to come to Ukraine in 2022 to take part in multinational drills. Understandably, these are primarily NATO troops. This year, at least ten of these joint drills are planned.
Obviously, such undertakings are designed to be a cover-up for a rapid buildup of the NATO military group on Ukrainian territory. This is all the more so since the network of airfields upgraded with US help in Borispol, Ivano-Frankovsk, Chuguyev and Odessa, to name a few, is capable of transferring army units in a very short time. Ukraine’s airspace is open to flights by US strategic and reconnaissance aircraft and drones that conduct surveillance over Russian territory.
I will add that the US-built Maritime Operations Centre in Ochakov makes it possible to support activity by NATO warships, including the use of precision weapons, against the Russian Black Sea Fleet and our infrastructure on the entire Black Sea Coast.
At one time, the United States intended to build similar facilities in Crimea as well but the Crimeans and residents of Sevastopol wrecked these plans. We will always remember this.
I would like to repeat that today such a centre has already been deployed in Ochakov. In the 18th century, soldiers of Alexander Suvorov fought for this city. Owing to their courage, it became part of Russia. Also in the 18th century, the lands of the Black Sea littoral, incorporated in Russia as a result of wars with the Ottoman Empire, were given the name of Novorossiya (New Russia). Now attempts are being made to condemn these landmarks of history to oblivion, along with the names of state and military figures of the Russian Empire without whose efforts modern Ukraine would not have many big cities or even access to the Black Sea.
A monument to Alexander Suvorov was recently demolished in Poltava. What is there to say? Are you renouncing your own past? The so-called colonial heritage of the Russian Empire? Well, in this case, be consistent.
Next, notably, Article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that deploying foreign military bases on its territory is illegal. However, as it turns out, this is just a conventionality that can be easily circumvented.
Ukraine is home to NATO training missions which are, in fact, foreign military bases. They just called a base a mission and were done with it.
Kiev has long proclaimed a strategic course on joining NATO. Indeed, each country is entitled to pick its own security system and enter into military alliances. There would be no problem with that, if it were not for one “but.” International documents expressly stipulate the principle of equal and indivisible security, which includes obligations not to strengthen one's own security at the expense of the security of other states. This is stated in the 1999 OSCE Charter for European Security adopted in Istanbul and the 2010 OSCE Astana Declaration.
In other words, the choice of pathways towards ensuring security should not pose a threat to other states, whereas Ukraine joining NATO is a direct threat to Russia's security.
Let me remind you that at the Bucharest NATO summit held in April 2008, the United States pushed through a decision to the effect that Ukraine and, by the way, Georgia would become NATO members. Many European allies of the United States were well aware of the risks associated with this prospect already then, but were forced to put up with the will of their senior partner. The Americans simply used them to carry out a clearly anti-Russian policy.
A number of NATO member states are still very sceptical about Ukraine joining NATO. We are getting signals from some European capitals telling us not to worry since it will not happen literally overnight. In fact, our US partners are saying the same thing as well. “All right, then” we respond, “if it does not happen tomorrow, then it will happen the day after tomorrow. What does it change from the historical perspective? Nothing at all.”
Furthermore, we are aware of the US leadership’s position and words that active hostilities in eastern Ukraine do not rule out the possibility of that country joining NATO if it meets NATO criteria and overcomes corruption.
All the while, they are trying to convince us over and over again that NATO is a peace-loving and purely defensive alliance that poses no threat to Russia. Again, they want us to take their word for it. But we are well aware of the real value of these words. In 1990, when German unification was discussed, the United States promised the Soviet leadership that NATO jurisdiction or military presence will not expand one inch to the east and that the unification of Germany will not lead to the spread of NATO's military organisation to the east. This is a quote.
They issued lots of verbal assurances, all of which turned out to be empty phrases. Later, they began to assure us that the accession to NATO by Central and Eastern European countries would only improve relations with Moscow, relieve these countries of the fears steeped in their bitter historical legacy, and even create a belt of countries that are friendly towards Russia.
However, the exact opposite happened. The governments of certain Eastern European countries, speculating on Russophobia, brought their complexes and stereotypes about the Russian threat to the Alliance and insisted on building up the collective defence potentials and deploying them primarily against Russia. Worse still, that happened in the 1990s and the early 2000s when, thanks to our openness and goodwill, relations between Russia and the West had reached a high level.
Russia has fulfilled all of its obligations, including the pullout from Germany, from Central and Eastern Europe, making an immense contribution to overcoming the legacy of the Cold War. We have consistently proposed various cooperation options, including in the NATO-Russia Council and the OSCE formats.
Moreover, I will say something I have never said publicly, I will say it now for the first time. When then outgoing US President Bill Clinton visited Moscow in 2000, I asked him how America would feel about admitting Russia to NATO.
I will not reveal all the details of that conversation, but the reaction to my question was, let us say, quite restrained, and the Americans’ true attitude to that possibility can actually be seen from their subsequent steps with regard to our country. I am referring to the overt support for terrorists in the North Caucasus, the disregard for our security demands and concerns, NATO’s continued expansion, withdrawal from the ABM Treaty, and so on. It raises the question: why? What is all this about, what is the purpose? All right, you do not want to see us as friends or allies, but why make us an enemy?
There can be only one answer – this is not about our political regime or anything like that. They just do not need a big and independent country like Russia around. This is the answer to all questions. This is the source of America’s traditional policy towards Russia. Hence the attitude to all our security proposals
Today, one glance at the map is enough to see to what extent Western countries have kept their promise to refrain from NATO’s eastward expansion. They just cheated. We have seen five waves of NATO expansion, one after another – Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary were admitted in 1999; Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia in 2004; Albania and Croatia in 2009; Montenegro in 2017; and North Macedonia in 2020.
As a result, the Alliance, its military infrastructure has reached Russia’s borders. This is one of the key causes of the European security crisis; it has had the most negative impact on the entire system of international relations and led to the loss of mutual trust.
The situation continues to deteriorate, including in the strategic area. Thus, positioning areas for interceptor missiles are being established in Romania and Poland as part of the US project to create a global missile defence system. It is common knowledge that the launchers deployed there can be used for Tomahawk cruise missiles – offensive strike systems.
In addition, the United States is developing its all-purpose Standard Missile-6, which can provide air and missile defence, as well as strike ground and surface targets. In other words, the allegedly defensive US missile defence system is developing and expanding its new offensive capabilities.
The information we have gives us good reason to believe that Ukraine’s accession to NATO and the subsequent deployment of NATO facilities has already been decided and is only a matter of time. We clearly understand that given this scenario, the level of military threats to Russia will increase dramatically, several times over. And I would like to emphasise at this point that the risk of a sudden strike at our country will multiply.
I will explain that American strategic planning documents confirm the possibility of a so-called preemptive strike at enemy missile systems. We also know the main adversary of the United States and NATO. It is Russia. NATO documents officially declare our country to be the main threat to Euro-Atlantic security. Ukraine will serve as an advanced bridgehead for such a strike. If our ancestors heard about this, they would probably simply not believe this. We do not want to believe this today either, but it is what it is. I would like people in Russia and Ukraine to understand this.
Many Ukrainian airfields are located not far from our borders. NATO’s tactical aviation deployed there, including precision weapon carriers, will be capable of striking at our territory to the depth of the Volgograd-Kazan-Samara-Astrakhan line. The deployment of reconnaissance radars on Ukrainian territory will allow NATO to tightly control Russia’s airspace up to the Urals.
Finally, after the US destroyed the INF Treaty, the Pentagon has been openly developing many land-based attack weapons, including ballistic missiles that are capable of hitting targets at a distance of up to 5,500 km. If deployed in Ukraine, such systems will be able to hit targets in Russia’s entire European part. The flying time of Tomahawk cruise missiles to Moscow will be less than 35 minutes; ballistic missiles from Kharkov will take seven to eight minutes; and hypersonic assault weapons, four to five minutes. It is like a knife to the throat. I have no doubt that they hope to carry out these plans, as they did many times in the past, expanding NATO eastward, moving their military infrastructure to Russian borders and fully ignoring our concerns, protests and warnings. Excuse me, but they simply did not care at all about such things and did whatever they deemed necessary.
Of course, they are going to behave in the same way in the future, following a well-known proverb: “The dogs bark but the caravan goes on.” Let me say right away – we do not accept this behaviour and will never accept it. That said, Russia has always advocated the resolution of the most complicated problems by political and diplomatic means, at the negotiating table.
We are well aware of our enormous responsibility when it comes to regional and global stability. Back in 2008, Russia put forth an initiative to conclude a European Security Treaty under which not a single Euro-Atlantic state or international organisation could strengthen their security at the expense of the security of others. However, our proposal was rejected right off the bat on the pretext that Russia should not be allowed to put limits on NATO activities.
Furthermore, it was made explicitly clear to us that only NATO members can have legally binding security guarantees.
Last December, we handed over to our Western partners a draft treaty between the Russian Federation and the United States of America on security guarantees, as well as a draft agreement on measures to ensure the security of the Russian Federation and NATO member states.
The United States and NATO responded with general statements. There were kernels of rationality in them as well, but they concerned matters of secondary importance and it all looked like an attempt to drag the issue out and to lead the discussion astray.
We responded to this accordingly and pointed out that we were ready to follow the path of negotiations, provided, however, that all issues are considered as a package that includes Russia’s core proposals which contain three key points. First, to prevent further NATO expansion. Second, to have the Alliance refrain from deploying assault weapon systems on Russian borders. And finally, rolling back the bloc's military capability and infrastructure in Europe to where they were in 1997, when the NATO-Russia Founding Act was signed.
These principled proposals of ours have been ignored. To reiterate, our Western partners have once again vocalised the all-too-familiar formulas that each state is entitled to freely choose ways to ensure its security or to join any military union or alliance. That is, nothing has changed in their stance, and we keep hearing the same old references to NATO’s notorious “open door” policy. Moreover, they are again trying to blackmail us and are threatening us with sanctions, which, by the way, they will introduce no matter what as Russia continues to strengthen its sovereignty and its Armed Forces. To be sure, they will never think twice before coming up with or just fabricating a pretext for yet another sanction attack regardless of the developments in Ukraine. Their one and only goal is to hold back the development of Russia. And they will keep doing so, just as they did before, even without any formal pretext just because we exist and will never compromise our sovereignty, national interests or values.
I would like to be clear and straightforward: in the current circumstances, when our proposals for an equal dialogue on fundamental issues have actually remained unanswered by the United States and NATO, when the level of threats to our country has increased significantly, Russia has every right to respond in order to ensure its security. That is exactly what we will do.
With regard to the state of affairs in Donbass, we see that the ruling Kiev elites never stop publicly making clear their unwillingness to comply with the Minsk Package of Measures to settle the conflict and are not interested in a peaceful settlement. On the contrary, they are trying to orchestrate a blitzkrieg in Donbass as was the case in 2014 and 2015. We all know how these reckless schemes ended.
Not a single day goes by without Donbass communities coming under shelling attacks. The recently formed large military force makes use of attack drones, heavy equipment, missiles, artillery and multiple rocket launchers. The killing of civilians, the blockade, the abuse of people, including children, women and the elderly, continues unabated. As we say, there is no end in sight to this.
Meanwhile, the so-called civilised world, which our Western colleagues proclaimed themselves the only representatives of, prefers not to see this, as if this horror and genocide, which almost 4 million people are facing, do not exist. But they do exist and only because these people did not agree with the West-supported coup in Ukraine in 2014 and opposed the transition towards the Neanderthal and aggressive nationalism and neo-Nazism which have been elevated in Ukraine to the rank of national policy. They are fighting for their elementary right to live on their own land, to speak their own language, and to preserve their culture and traditions.
How long can this tragedy continue? How much longer can one put up with this? Russia has done everything to preserve Ukraine’s territorial integrity. All these years, it has persistently and patiently pushed for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 2202 of February 17, 2015, which consolidated the Minsk Package of Measures of February 12, 2015, to settle the situation in Donbass.
Everything was in vain. Presidents and Rada deputies come and go, but deep down the aggressive and nationalistic regime that seized power in Kiev remains unchanged. It is entirely a product of the 2014 coup, and those who then embarked on the path of violence, bloodshed and lawlessness did not recognise then and do not recognise now any solution to the Donbass issue other than a military one.
In this regard, I consider it necessary to take a long overdue decision and to immediately recognise the independence and sovereignty of the Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic.
I would like to ask the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation to support this decision and then ratify the Treaty of Friendship and Mutual Assistance with both republics. These two documents will be prepared and signed shortly.
We want those who seized and continue to hold power in Kiev to immediately stop hostilities. Otherwise, the responsibility for the possible continuation of the bloodshed will lie entirely on the conscience of Ukraine’s ruling regime.
As I announce the decisions taken today, I remain confident in the support of Russia’s citizens and the country’s patriotic forces.
Thank you.
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Foreign policy
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 21, 2022, 22:35
Text version