Events
Presenting Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia
The ceremony to present Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia took place in St George's Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace ahead of Heroes of the Fatherland Day, marked in Russia on December 9.
December 8, 2022
13:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 20
The ceremony to present Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia. Photo: Aleksey Maishev, RIA Novosti
Taking part in the event were over 200 military personnel and civilians who have demonstrated special courage and heroism, including Heroes of the Soviet Union, Heroes of the Russian Federation and recipients of the Order of St George.
The medal recipients received greetings from by Hero of Russia, First Deputy Chair of the State Duma Committee on Defence Andrei Krasov, and Hero of Russia, member of the Federation Council Committee on Defence and Security Dmitry Perminov.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues, comrades,
Today we pay tribute to the Heroes of the Fatherland.
People of various eras, times, fates and personalities, whose names are inscribed in the history of our state, performed heroic feats and deeds – military, labour and civilian – in the name of our Motherland, in the name of our people.
The recipients of the Order of St George, founded by Catherine the Great, as well as the Order of Glory, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Heroes of the Russian Federation – we honour everyone who earned their high title with their courage and self-sacrifice, and now, at this time, we feel especially keenly that the link of times is unbreakable, that the sacred feeling of love for the Motherland is passed down through generations and is an absolute, supreme value.
Our country has faced great challenges many times, and our people responded with an unbreakable unity to all attempts to encroach upon our state’s security and independence, and stood united to defend our homeland in the battlefield and on the home front.
We bow before our ancestors who created the great, victorious history of Russia and take pride in our soldiers, officers, volunteers and militia who are fighting now in the special military operation, who are performing their military duty with honour when defending the lives and dignity of our citizens, as well as our shared right to choose our own path.
Today, the highest state awards will be presented to military personnel who demonstrated exceptional valour and courage during the special military operation and earned the Hero of Russia title.
I sincerely thank you for serving your Motherland, for your loyalty to the ideals that have always, at all times, rallied Russia together.
I would also like to address those who are on the frontlines now: for me, for all our fellow citizens, each of you is a hero. And I really want you to feel the warmth of our hearts, and the warmth of this truly nationwide support.
Friends,
Heroism is based on one’s love for their Motherland and a deep awareness of their duty be it military, civil, or professional, a clear idea, deep down, of how one should live their life, what kind of values to uphold and to defend, and how to act in difficult, extreme situations.
This is what guides people who choose professions that involve great personal risk, but at the same time, lead their whole country to success and achievement. And today, I will be happy to present awards to our test cosmonauts.
All heroes put their duty before everything else – all those people who rescue others at great personal risk, who perform remarkable exploits at work, in science, in industry, in teaching or in the medical field, in various fields, who give their energy and expertise, working hard for the sake of their nation, their homeland, who are worthy successors of the centuries-old history of accomplishments by our people.
I am sure that the lives and deeds of the Heroes of the Fatherland serve as the most important moral reference point for the majority of citizens in our vast country, that they inspire us to always achieve more, go forward and create, for the benefit of the people, and together make our country stronger and more successful.
Greetings on Heroes of the Fatherland Day.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Many of those who received awards today spoke about their devotion to their Motherland, and they have proved, not in words but in deeds, that it is the law they live by.
In the midst of combat, and in any situation involving extreme danger, every person wants to stay alive and whole, and wants to see their friends, family, children, wives, and parents again. But this sense of self-preservation, which is natural for every human, fades into the background when people live by higher meanings and higher ideals of devotion to their nation.
Today is a holiday, but we must remember those who are not with us today, the people who perished while defending their Motherland, as well as those now recovering from wounds – let us wish health and prosperity to all of them.
We must also remember their families, the people who have been the closest to them and who have made them heroes – their parents, their classmates at school (maybe even from kindergarten) and colleagues at work.
I wish all the best to all of you today. I would like to say and confirm what the awardees have said here today, that you are on a great mission. When you talk about your Motherland, you must never forget that your Motherland is not just a territory; your Motherland includes the people you are defending. That is what your Motherland is. We all realise this, and we are grateful to you and your comrades-in-arms for what you are doing for our Motherland.
Happy holiday! Congratulations on your awards.
Topics
Armed Forces
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2022, 13:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Heroes of Russia who were awarded Gold Star Medals
After the ceremony to present Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia, Vladimir Putin talked briefly with the medal recipients.
December 8, 2022
15:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
With Heroes of Russia, Gold Star Medal recipients.
<…>
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: How long have you been serving?
Colonel Maxim Stefanov, Head of the 267th Flight Research Test Centre, Deputy Head of the Defence Ministry 929th State Flight Test Centre: Since 2000.
Vladimir Putin: What aircraft have you handled?
Maxim Stefanov: All the newest ones. The latest one is the Sukhoi Su-57, which we are using now to carry out the goal of protecting our interests. The plane has proven itself worthy. I hope that it will contribute to our victory.
See also
Presenting Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia
December 8, 2022
Vladimir Putin: Yes, yes. Aviation is performing very well. It is very good to have this in combat duty, actually around-the-clock. They have shown themselves to be very effective, to do everything as scheduled and to work very competently. Both attack aircraft and Sukhois – Su-34 and 35 – are fighting perfectly, very well. The armament is good. Great, just great. They are making a significant contribution to the effectiveness of troop operations. But you probably know this.
Maxim Stefanov: Yes, sir.
Vladimir Putin: As it was said here, and I have also said that the Fatherland means people above all, and we must always remember this. First of all, we are doing everything for the people, in order to protect them, and we must have faith internally that we are doing it with dignity, and do it exactly like this because the country and those people who need protection, they understand that the last hope is on you. This is the case.
All nonsense, information confrontation, information dumps, and all sorts of fake stories should be put aside, should not prevent us from fulfilling our duty to our people. And you do not have to be particularly sophisticated about this information battle to understand what is really happening.
Right now, there is a lot of buzz about our attacks on the energy infrastructure of a neighbouring country. Yes, we are doing this, but who started it? Who hit the Crimean Bridge? Who blew up the power lines from the Kursk Nuclear Power Plant? Who is not supplying water to Donetsk? Not distributing water to a city of millions is an act of genocide. No one anywhere has said a word about this, the silence is complete. As soon as we move and do something in response: noise and uproar are raised all across the universe.
This will not interfere with our combat missions. And I want to thank you that you and your comrades are doing this in the most dignified way. Thank you very much.
Once again, I congratulate you on this high award of the Fatherland.
Remark: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: And Happy New Year to you! It is unlikely that we will see each other before the New Year. The very best regards to all your colleagues, comrades-in-arms. All the best!
Remark: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Goodbye.
Topics
Armed Forces
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2022, 15:30
Text version