Events
Meeting of the Supervisory Council of the Russian Movement of Children and Youth
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Supervisory Council of the Russian Public-State Movement of Children and Youth, via videoconference.
September 1, 2022
18:30
Kaliningrad
7 of 9
During the meeting of the Supervisory Council of the Russian Movement of Children and Youth (via videoconference).
A meeting of the Advisory Council of the Russian national public-and-state movement of children and youth took place at the Museum and Theatre Educational Complex via videoconference.
Before the meeting, Vladimir Putin visited the operating part of the complex and was told about the construction of the other buildings and the future of the cultural cluster.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
Today, on Knowledge Day, September 1, we are holding the first meeting of the Supervisory Council of the Russian Movement of Children and Youth. You probably already know that I just had a good meeting – here in Kaliningrad – with schoolchildren who are actively involved in such programs as Bolshaya Peremena, in the Young Army, and other volunteer, patriotic, and educational projects. Two participants of that meeting are also here now – Emilia Kotlyar and Artyom Klimkov; we invited them.
The initiative to create the movement we are talking about, as you know, actually came from schoolchildren. It is important that all our decisions continue to be based on children’s opinions, to follow their aspirations and dreams.
Our young people, our children are very talented and very open. They have so much energy, and many ideas to build and create, to form a new modern space for development, in their own interests and in the interests of our great country.
Therefore, the adults’ job is first of all to help and support children, to act as their equal partners, to develop this organisation according to the rules that the participants in the movement themselves propose, and to work together so as to consolidate the best children's and youth projects and make participation accessible to everyone, both younger children and teenagers.
See also
All news about the trip to Kaliningrad
September 1, 2022
I would like to specifically emphasise that the new movement should not become a privilege for children living in big cities, where it is easier to set up and organise activities. Now, the new movement should be present in every community where children are growing up including small towns, rural areas and even our most remote regions. It is imperative to thoroughly think through this movement’s infrastructure – where the participants can meet, where they can implement their ideas and projects. I would like to address this separately today.
At the same time, I would like to emphasise that voluntary participation should be the underlying principle. By no means should it become an obligation; this is something to be avoided. A child should join the movement because they find it interesting to do stuff there, and not because someone suggested or recommended they join, let alone required them to. This is completely inappropriate.
This new movement should rely on the best educational and awareness-raising programmes, both newly-created and those that have worked effectively for generations. We have such traditions; they are recognised and popular in society.
One such programme involves volunteering to help others, those who need help. I have just discussed this with the children; there are initiatives like this, and children are happy to volunteer for these programmes.
We must create even more opportunities for the younger generation to work together, to meet, to work on projects with their peers from other regions, and to make friends all over the country – from Kaliningrad, where we are now, to Vladivostok, from Kamchatka to Crimea. They should travel together, get to know our country.
Indicatively, we have a special programme called More Than a Journey. It gives young people an opportunity not only to see the country and visit unique places but also to feel like part of a big, friendly family, a team that can meet any challenge.
Of course, in addition to Russian students, it is vital to encourage student participation from the Lugansk and Donetsk people’s republics in this movement.
Another thing I would like to draw your attention to is staffing, that is, attracting people that can become senior friends for children and teenagers, who can lead them into the adult world.
Considering the potential scale of the movement, the broad range of themes and the participation of many children and young people of different ages, we will need to involve professionals and increase the number of people working in this area. The movement should welcome people that are interested in working with children, in their development and upbringing, who understand the importance of this work and realise the responsibility they bear.
I will repeat that these people should be passionate professionals who are capable of leading children and who are more interesting to them than the huge amounts of information in the modern world. We need people who will help them figure out the underlying meaning of these information flows, to dismiss everything false and ostentatious and to skillfully present genuine values, such as family, friendship, love for their homeland, and the values of self-fulfillment and development and meaningful engagement in the life of society and the whole country.
It is difficult to ensure continuity in Russia’s development without this, without care for the fundamental principles of life. It is not enough to simply pass knowledge on to children; it is no less important to teach them how to use it, to explain how to live and work.
I hope to hear your specific considerations and proposals on this issue today. We will determine the next measures and tasks for the future together.
<… >
Vladimir Putin: I do not think I need to repeat how important our work is, and how relevant it is today, given the difficulties, the challenges and the dangers posed by the current situation in public morals and education. It is very important for us to avoid this.
At today’s meeting with the children, we spoke about mentoring – someone asked a question. Now some of our colleagues have mentioned it here. A mentor is like a ship’s pilot, someone who helps young adults, young souls to avoid shipwreck in the sea of these challenges and dangers, but follow the right track passing between Scylla and Charybdis. The nationwide movement’s mission will be to ensure this, to find people – as I said at the beginning of our meeting – people who have a vocation and enough enthusiasm, who realise the responsibility on their shoulders, but who will undertake this big – grandiose, I dare say – and hugely important work for the country.
I would like to stress once again that by no means should this process be allowed to get bogged down in red tape; otherwise, our efforts will go down the drain from the very first steps. This is the most important condition for making this entire enterprise a success.
I am sure that everyone present here today understands this. We must do everything in our power to ensure its success.
Much has been said today. Of course, we can talk more, and we need to think about this constantly, and even more than that. But let's assume that for a start, for a run-up, as they say, the first test of this difficult apparatus, and this round should give us a good start to this grand and important endeavor.
I would like to thank everyone for their willingness to work and to wish us all success. Once again, happy Knowledge Day to everyone.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Children
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2022, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Governor of Kaliningrad Region Anton Alikhanov
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Governor of the Kaliningrad Region Anton Alikhanov.
September 1, 2022
20:00
Kaliningrad
2 of 4
With Kaliningrad Region Governor Anton Alikhanov. Photo: RIA Novosti
Anton Alikhanov
began his report with the situation in education. In recent years, four schools and 17 kindergartens have been built in the region. This year, 3,500 more children enrolled at the region’s educational institutions than last year. Thanks to a new demographic subsidy from the Government, the growing region was able to conclude concession agreements for the construction of schools, to attract private funds, and 10 more schools will be built in the next five years in the Kaliningrad Region.
The region’s population is growing, but so far this is due to migration. The region is attractive, with the population growing by about 1 percent per year over the past five years. However, additional regional measures need to be adopted to spur natural growth; the regional authorities are working on this now.
The Governor also spoke about the opportunities for extracurricular education for schoolchildren, and vacation options for children. Several corporate children's camps closed in the late 1990s. An agreement has been reached with former owners of those camps to transfer the land plots to the region; the plan is to revive the camps and build infrastructure for year-round operation. The respective proposals will be prepared.
See also
All news about the trip to Kaliningrad
September 1, 2022
Mr Alikhanov also reported positive results of a feasibility study for the Immanuel Kant Baltic Federal University campus project. Construction will begin this year. The tercentenary of Immanuel Kant will be marked in 2024, an important anniversary for the Kaliningrad Region as well as for the international scientific community, the Governor added. Anton Alikhanov invited the President to take part in the anniversary events.
Answering the President's question about the creation of the Museum and Theatre Education Complex, Anton Alikhanov said that the Central Music School, which is part of the complex, began its work late last year and has become an internationally recognised institution. So far, 132 children attend it. The campaign to enrol children in the Academy of Choreography is underway, as is the construction of the branches of the Tretyakov Gallery and the Bolshoi Theatre. The region’s culture has reached a new level of development.
Vladimir Putin noted that he has long thought about using the artworks that are currently stored in the repositories of the Hermitage Museum and the Tretyakov Gallery to exhibit them in the Kaliningrad Region, Kemerovo, Vladivostok and Sevastopol. It will facilitate museum studies and provide public access to these masterpieces, as well as improve the training of experts and the quality of life in those regions.
Anton Alikhanov also spoke about major economic projects. Despite restrictions imposed by the neighbouring states, fixed asset investment growth in the first six months of 2022 was over 50 percent as compared to the previous year. The Rosatom state corporation plans to begin the construction of the region’s largest plant to manufacture lithium-ion batteries, electric car batteries and various types of electric vehicles this year.
As for transport issues, in the beginning of the year, two ferries operated between Baltiysk and Ust-Luga; there are currently eight of them. But there are already waiting lists for them; therefore, Anton Alikhanov asked the President to issue relevant instructions to the Transport Ministry: there are available capacities in the Black Sea and other waters; ferries and bulk carriers can be relocated to the Kaliningrad Region to service roll on/roll off operations. It is crucial for the region to bypass restrictions illegitimately imposed by the Lithuanian neighbours. According to the Governor, a draft resolution has already been developed together with the Government to subsidise these operations so that the route and its cost would remain at the same level as it was before the restrictions.
The President emphasised that all the necessary, useful and economically viable measures will be implemented.
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
School
Social services
Persons
Alikhanov Anton
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2022, 20:00
Text versionEvents
Russian schools open in Tajikistan
Vladimir Putin and President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon attend, via videoconference, the opening ceremony at five general education schools with instruction in Russian in the Tajik cities of Dushanbe, Khujand, Bokhtar, Kulob and Tursunzoda.
September 1, 2022
15:50
Kaliningrad
1 of 5
Vladimir Putin and President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon attend, via videoconference, the opening ceremony at five general education schools with instruction in Russian in the Tajik cities of Dushanbe, Khujand, Bokhtar, Kulob and Tursunzoda.
Remarks at the opening ceremony in five general education schools with instruction in Russian in Tajikistan
President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
: Greetings, Mr Putin.
Dear education workers and schoolchildren,
I am sincerely happy to attend today’s opening ceremony of new educational institutions together with President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
I remember 2019, when the President of Russia and I launched this project to build five schools with Russian as the language of instruction in the cities of Khujand, Tursunzoda, Kulob, Bokhtar, and in Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan.
I am happy that we have managed to fully implement it in a relatively short period of time, and now the younger generation has additional opportunities to get an education in new schools that have the latest in education technologies and equipment.
See also
All news about the trip to Kaliningrad
September 1, 2022
On behalf of the Government of Tajikistan and myself, I would like to thank the Government of the Russian Federation and you personally, Mr President, for your support and comprehensive assistance during the high-quality construction work and for opening the new educational institutions on time.
It is symbolic that they are opening their doors for teachers and schoolchildren this year, during the anniversary of diplomatic ties between our states. Over the last three decades, Tajikistan and Russia have achieved significant results in developing and strengthening our relations of strategic partnership, which encompasses almost all key spheres of cooperation today.
The consistent build-up of humanitarian ties, including in the areas of education, science and culture, has a special place on the bilateral agenda. Further expansion of cultural and humanitarian cooperation is a constant priority for discussion during regular meetings and contacts at the highest level.
Over this period, we have developed the necessary legislative base for education and research cooperation in our relations. More than 200 documents on bilateral cooperation have been signed between governments, relevant departments and universities of the two countries. They serve as a solid foundation for the further development of cooperation in education and science. A good foundation has been laid for comprehensive cooperation between the two countries’ research centres and universities.
Russia and Tajikistan’s cooperation includes many topical scientific and practical areas in the natural and hard sciences, mathematics and social science, as well as innovative technologies.
Our efforts to expand opportunities for receiving secondary and higher education in Russian are yielding the desired results. Today there are 39 schools in Tajikistan with Russian as the language of instruction, with about 27,000 students. There are also more than 160 mixed Tajik-Russian schools with about 70,000 pupils.
At the same time, in accordance with state standards, teaching of the Russian language is obligatory in the curriculum, and starting from second grade, it is studied in all general education schools – about 4,000 of them.
Today Russian teachers teach Tajik children in our educational institutions as part of a separate social project.
In this context, providing our schools with textbooks and manuals is still a topical issue. Russian-Tajik (Slavonic) University operates productively in Dushanbe, under the auspices of the two countries. In addition, branches of such prestigious Russian universities as Moscow State University, Moscow Power Engineering Institute and MISiS [National University of Science and Technology] are successfully operating in Tajikistan.
In general, considering students of RTSU and the branches of Russian universities I have mentioned, the number of Tajik young people getting a Russian education is more than 30,000, and about 25,000 citizens of Tajikistan are currently studying in over 700 universities in Russia.
Graduates of Russian universities are in high demand in various sectors of the national economy. They are the reason for the constantly growing pool of qualified applicants for jobs in the civil service, diplomacy, science and education, as well as culture and the arts.
We are interested in further expanding cooperation in the sphere of higher education. We welcome the opening of new branches of Russian universities in Tajikistan, which could train specialists in fields that are vital for our country’s development.
We are grateful to the Russian side for annually giving us an education quota in a wide range of disciplines that are in demand in our country.
Today the quota has reached 700, and the President and I have agreed that it will be increased up to 1,000.
As we consistently implement the government’s language policy, we are careful to take an integrated approach to the development of the Russian language along with the state language. And this is no accident. As you know, according to the Tajikistani Constitution, Russian has the status of a language of interethnic communication.
Two years ago, the CIS Heads of State Council decided to declare 2023 the Year of the Russian Language. In this connection, we agreed to take additional measures to support and develop Russian in the Commonwealth countries, including Tajikistan.
In general, I would like to emphasise that Tajikistan is interested in further developing the full range of cultural contacts with Russia. In this context, the Government of Tajikistan is committed to adopting the necessary measures to expand cooperation between the educational, scientific and research institutions of the two countries, including in the sphere of training scientists and teachers.
Mr Putin,
Assembled guests,
In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude to the builders and everyone who worked hard to make this project to build schools in Dushanbe, Khujand, Tursunzoda, Kulob, and Bokhtar a reality.
I would like to extend my best wishes to representatives of one of the most noble professions – our teachers, who begin their work in these educational institutions today. I believe that the knowledge gained by schoolchildren within these walls will help turn them into creators, who will ensure the sustainable development and prosperity of the country.
Best wishes also to our schoolchildren, who begin their studies in these institutions.
I am sure that both parents and children are very happy to get such a gift on Knowledge Day, which is celebrated today everywhere in Tajikistan.
I would also like to wish success and all the best to everyone involved in today’s important event.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rahmon,
Dear teachers, pupils and parents,
I will begin with what my good, longtime friend, President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon ended his speech – I will wish all of you a happy beginning of a new academic year.
By a good tradition, we – both Russia and Tajikistan – consider September 1 the Day of Knowledge and a day of celebration. Symbolically, on this day, the Republic of Tajikistan has opened five new schools with instruction in Russian, and, as was mentioned, based on Russian education programmes and standards.
As was also noted, President Rahmon and I agreed to implement this large joint project in 2019, and we have kept it under permanent control since then. I remember how Mr Rahmon criticised me, out of friendship, for not paying enough attention to areas of humanitarian cooperation.
Mr Rahmon, we are getting better.
President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon:
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I believe we are attending a good, very kindly event today.
In a relatively short time, modern schools that can accept almost 5,000 Tajik children were built in five Tajik cities: Dushanbe, Khujand, Bokhtar, Kulob and Tursunzoda.
The new schools have been equipped based on the latest practices for organising the education process, and they meet the latest seismic safety requirements. They can withstand a 9-point earthquake, which is vital for Tajikistan. I would like to convey special thanks for this to the Russian engineers, designers and builders and all our Tajik friends that took part in building these schools.
I am convinced that the schools built with Russia's help will become a welcoming home for students, and the teachers, including those from Russia – a question that President Rahmon also raised a few years ago – about sending teachers to Tajikistan, we did it too, I remember, Mr Rahmon, it was your request – so with the help of our teachers, students will discover for themselves the wonderful world of Russian language and literature. Our teachers will introduce the achievements of Russian and world science and culture to Tajik children, help them put to use their talents and interests, get to know each other, and find friends among their peers in Russia and other CIS countries, and provide them with a path to adulthood.
We are pleased to note the growing interest among citizens of Tajikistan in education in Russian. This trend is largely a result of the fact that, as already mentioned, the Constitution of Tajikistan gives Russian the special status of a language of inter-ethnic communication.
As is well known, the Russian language in general education schools in Tajikistan is studied, and I want to emphasise this, as early as second grade. There are 39 general education institutions with Russian participation in the Republic, and 160 schools have opened classes with Russian language instruction.
Our humanitarian project Russian Teacher Abroad has been running successfully in Tajikistan for six years now. In the framework of this project, 76 Russian teachers will teach the Russian language, mathematics, natural sciences and information technology in Tajikistan’s schools.
With Russian support, Tajikistan also regularly conducts geography and ecology quizzes, and the Victory Quiz.
By the way, I should mention that our countries actively cooperate in higher education, as the President of Tajikistan has just said. Every year, citizens of Tajikistan have the opportunity to study at Russian universities at the expense of the Russian budget. No money is spared for this, as it brings our countries and peoples closer together and trains workers for Tajikistan. People educated in Russia will be committed to strengthening our cooperation in the long term.
In the 2022-2023academic year, the quota has increased by 100 spots, reaching 750, and next year it will be even higher.
Russian-Tajik University and affiliates of several Russian universities are training qualified personnel, as was just mentioned. I want to cite this figure – overall, there are already 30,000 students from Tajikistan at Russian universities.
Returning to the current event, I would like to stress that the opening of five new Russian schools in Tajikistan is a momentous event for our bilateral relations, and that this is a clear indication of the long and sincere friendship between the Russian and Tajik nations, and of the partnership and alliance between our states.
Russian-Tajikistani relations are growing stronger every day. They are continuously replenished with joint, mutually beneficial projects in the humanitarian, education and other areas.
The Days of Tajik Culture will open in Russia soon, on September 24.
Mr Rahmon, I would like to tell you that at yesterday’s meeting with the Mayor of Moscow, Mr Sobyanin said that Moscow has resolved the issue you raised – to provide you with a building of your choice in the centre of Moscow to host a cultural centre. Mr Sobyanin said the Moscow government will foot the bill for it.
We are also planning to hold, before the end of this year, a bilateral youth forum devoted to the development of inter-cultural dialogue and the creation of a common humanitarian space.
All these major initiatives would not have been possible without the keen attention of Tajikistan’s leadership and the President.
I would like to convey my sincere gratitude for this to President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon and all of our Tajik friends and colleagues, and to thank them especially for their assistance and support in preserving and promoting the status of the Russian language in Tajikistan.
In conclusion, I would like, of course, to wish good marks to the students of these new schools, self-fulfillment and new discoveries.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Tajikistan
Topics
Foreign policy
School
Persons
Rahmon Emomali
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2022, 15:50
Text versionEvents
Talking of What Matters open lesson
During his visit to the Museum and Theatre Educational Complex in Kaliningrad, the President conducted an open lesson, Talking of What Matters, for winners of Olympiads and competitions in the field of culture, art, science and sport.
September 1, 2022
17:10
Kaliningrad
2 of 13
Vladimir Putin conducted an open lesson, Talking of What Matters, with winners of Olympiads and competitions in culture, art, science and sport.
Excerpts from transcript of Talking of What Matters open lesson
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Hello, everyone.
Please forgive me for being a bit late, but I had another event for September 1, Knowledge Day – the opening of five Russian schools in Tajikistan. The President of Tajikistan and I agreed to do this long ago. They are obviously short of Russian schools, schools with instruction in Russian. We helped them open five schools in five cities in Tajikistan, and we will also send teachers there to teach the Russian language, literature, maths and some other subjects. They will do everything in accordance with Russian standards and based on Russian study materials.
This is what I wanted to say at the outset. I also wanted to add to this what I said there, and now, speaking to this audience, I would like to return to the main thing – to congratulate you on the start of the academic year, September 1. I would like to extend my best wishes to you, your grandparents and parents, teachers, all schoolchildren and all students – all those who begin their studies on September 1.
This is a completely new phase in life for many of those who came to school. I am referring, of course, to first graders. We have many of them this year, almost two million or 1,918,000 to be precise. They are starting a new and serious chapter in life, their adult life in a sense, and you feel this yourselves. Why is that? Because you are assuming responsibilities and this is, naturally, the first step into adulthood.
See also
All news about the trip to Kaliningrad
September 1, 2022
As for children who already have a few years of school under their belts, the main thing is to look for your own identity, to search for your own path in order to lead a fulfilling life, reach your potential and achieve the goals you set for yourself. This is very important, and not only for you personally but also for the country because its success depends on the success of each of you.
You know this joke: by carefully chewing your food, you are helping society. But there is a grain of truth in this. In the same way, an active lifestyle, as well as playing sports – if you exercise and do sports, improve your health, along with having to spend less on pills, on medicine, you also become more efficient, more energetic, more vigorous, and more purposeful. This helps you achieve success. And if it helps each person achieve success, then it contributes to the development of the nation as a whole, because a country’s success is added up from the success of each particular person.
Our country is developing rapidly, and of course, we need each person to be successful. True, Russia, as well as the world, is going through events that require a cautious approach and careful analysis, so that we can act decisively and carefully at the same time, and every step we take should be aimed at strengthening our country from within and reinforcing its standing in the world. This is not easy of course, but once again, I would like to reiterate the point that I just made: this country’s success will depend on you being successful in the future. And that begins to take shape at school, where your path begins.
And it is very important to find yourself – this is probably the most important thing for everyone. Many people keep searching all their lives and cannot find what they truly want or value right away, not after school, not even after university or professional training. Many change careers, and this is basically normal. This is especially important in the modern world, because the requirements – I will use some adult terminology – the requirements of the labour market are changing constantly. Science and education are going through swift and dynamic change. Naturally, we must create a knowledge acquisition paradigm in which acquired knowledge is, on the one hand, broad enough and, on the other hand, allows us to specialise and use this knowledge in a range of industries. This will make it much easier to make the first steps in one's career path. My wish for you is that you achieve this, it is very important.
That concludes my remarks. What we are doing is called a lesson, which sounds so serious. But I do not think this should be a lesson; perhaps it will be a useful conversation, a frank discussion, and, I hope, interesting for you.
Who wants to go first, please?
<…>
Vladimir Putin (answering a question on the development of science in Russia under the conditions when the country “appears to have been cut off from many foreign technologies” asked by Kira Golovataya from Moscow, who is interested in biotechnologies): Regarding the issue of someone cutting someone off from something, it is really hard to do it in the modern world, in the world of information dissemination, including research data, the internet and so on. Can you imagine it? It is practically impossible. Meanwhile, certain areas in science and technology are very hard to develop without Russia at all. For example, there are large international projects with our European partners where we have over 70 percent participation. They are really hard to implement at all [without us].
For example, in space, despite all the problems, our partners have declared that they want to continue cooperation, because although the Americans can also deliver materials, equipment and astronauts to the ISS, it costs several times more than by using our rockets. They all love to count and can do it very well down there.
Therefore, it is impossible to cut off everything. But this is not the point; the point is that we must develop such key areas inside the country. We must not be in a position where we are catching up or only focus on what we can do equally well. We must lead in key areas. We must hold the keys to certain areas of scientific research.
Biotechnologies are certainly among the most promising research areas. We have a programme for up to 2030. If memory serves me right, over 120 billion rubles have been earmarked for this programme.
However, it is crucial that problems in both fundamental and applied science are being solved so that the results of such research affect the development of our industry and science, separate sectors such as pharmaceuticals, medicine, agriculture and others. Overall, we have been successful in that.
Domestically produced instruments and devices are among the acute problems that are far from being resolved at present, of course. We obviously have to make very serious steps forward in this respect, and we have a whole programme for developing domestic instrument engineering.
Thus, we are aware of what is to be done. I completely agree with you that it is one of the crucial areas, and I hope we will be making progress in it with your participation.
<…>
Vladimir Putin (responding to Alexander Smolin, 12, from Skopin, Ryazan Region, who spoke about how he and his friends visit elderly people in a nursing home): It might be difficult at your age to grasp what I am going to say but on the other hand, there might be nothing difficult in it at all.
You say it was your mum who brought you there for the first time, right? It means your mother has a kind heart. That is absolutely clear. And she will obviously pass this on to you. Not as something you are told to do but as part of your conscience and your soul. And this will undoubtedly be with you for the rest of your life. This is very important. It is not some assignment from someone; it must be an inner need.
You see, your mother is undoubtedly a very kind and decent person. I want to say the following in this connection. You are all quite young. There is such a notion as a maternal or a parental instinct. It exists in nature, it is in our genes, especially in women.
Maternity means strong feelings, and having children makes one incredibly happy. It is one of the goals in life and existence of every living being and this is a very powerful instinct. It compels a person to take certain actions to support and defend their children. It is like this almost everywhere in nature. Meanwhile, children do not have an instinct to protect their parents. It is basically quite natural although I may be saying controversial things. Adults will hear me now and will begin to argue or say that something is wrong.
Yet I think it is an obvious thing because all of us, both adults and children, accept our parents’ kindness as something due to us: they must act this way, and we do not even notice it. This is how it should be; it is traditional and natural. Meanwhile, there is no reciprocal inner, physiological movement towards parents and the elderly. Instead, there is something programmed by our upbringing: compassion, care, attention to people who need your help and support. This is what your mother has, and she instils it in you.
They say that kindness towards the elderly is determined by the level of society’s development. And it makes society more efficient. It is also important to cultivate this in oneself and pass it on to those around you.
Therefore, there is a great need for what you are doing. To say nothing of the fact that people are in such homes because they do not have a family, and they certainly need attention. They definitely need such care. But it is also important for you because if you feel that you are doing something good for people, you make this kindness stronger in your heart, you are becoming a better person, so actually you need it as much as the elderly people.
Finally, there is one more component of this entire process. There are many well-educated people with great life experience in such homes, and as you speak with them, you can learn many useful things. So this is something very important and necessary.
Thank you. Full speed ahead!
<…>
Yelizaveta Shvydenko: Good afternoon, Mr President. I am from Makeyevka, Donetsk People’s Republic.
Let me tell you a little about myself. I love reading, drawing, dancing, and I also learn foreign languages. They are my hobby.
This summer one of my schoolmates went to St Petersburg under the University Shift programme [a programme for children from the DPR and LPR encompassing over 40 Russian universities and 11,000 children this year]. Unfortunately, I couldn’t go there because at that time I won a tour to the Artek children’s camp and went there.
Could you say if the University Shifts will continue? To be honest, I would very much love to participate, as well as many of my friends, even Russians.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, sure. I suppose if you like it and your friend liked it, it must be a useful undertaking.
And I believe it is useful overall, by design.
Because the people living there – and you know this better than any outsider – identify themselves as part of our common humanitarian, cultural and language space. Of course, you also speak Russian, which is your native language.
And for that reason, and especially in view of the difficult time you had for the past eight years, you have the right and you should have a chance to come in contact – in the highest and best sense of the word – including by making such trips and getting such experience.
We will definitely keep such programmes running.
Yelizaveta Shvydenko: Good.
Can I use this opportunity to ask you for something?
We are on the air now, and my mother and grandmother are watching us right now. Could you please wish them something good? I think they will be very pleased.
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
First of all, I would like to thank them for raising such a good daughter and granddaughter. Thank you very much, my deepest gratitude and all the very best to you!
<…>
Vladimir Putin (in response to the request by Danila Skryabin from the Vladimir Region, a member of the children’s public council of the Victory Museum, an organiser of the First National School History Forum Right Makes Might, on support in creating a website with virtual exhibits and exhibitions devoted to the current events in Ukraine): What exactly do we need to do?
Danila Skryabin: We will most likely need help in obtaining electronic materials, getting people’s recollections and, probably, some technical base.
Vladimir Putin: I will certainly ask my colleagues to think this through. The main thing is that these materials’ authenticity must be confirmed, as such things must be based on true information, on some material objects confirming the sequence of events which took place in the past.
A girl from Donbass just had the floor before you and you brought this subject up again. You are well aware of the events that took place there, aren’t you? Yesterday I had a conversation with Minister of Education Sergei Kravtsov. He has travelled to Donetsk and other areas. I listened to the things he told me with my mouth open. Students do not even know that the Crimean Bridge exists. They believe it is a fake.
They have no clue, no idea that Ukraine and Russia used to be part of a single state – the Soviet Union. They simply do not know this. This is how they were taught. And not only children but even many adults appear not to know that Ukraine had never been a sovereign state before the establishment of the Soviet Union. Such a state simply did not exist. There were some quasi-state entities created after the 1917 Revolution and then Ukraine emerged during the establishment of the Soviet Union. The Communist Party, which was in power back then, formed union republics, including Ukraine, and transferred a large number of historic Russian lands, including Donbass, to Ukraine, although Donbass residents did not want that. There is direct evidence and documents testifying to this: first Donbass, Lugansk and Donetsk formed the Krivoi Rog Republic, which was supposed to become part of Russia, and then Vladimir Lenin said: we need to settle it differently. And gave them to Ukraine, whose formation was in progress.
No one knows it there. Everybody believes that there is some Russian aggression. No one understands or knows that following the 2014 coup d’etat in Ukraine, the people of Donetsk, Lugansk and Crimea, at least, most of them, did not want to accept the results of this coup. It is not really a subject for children but it is very clear. A war against them was unleashed, and it lasted for eight years. And our objective, our mission, the mission of our soldiers whom you mentioned, the Donbass militia, is to stop this war, protect the people and defend Russia, since an anti-Russian enclave threatening our country was being created in Ukraine. This is why our soldiers fighting there are defending both the people of Donbass and Russia.
Of course, this is very important and it deserves utmost support of society, of young people, as the men fighting there are putting their lives at risk and many of them perish. They have to know what they give their lives for ‒ this is extremely important ‒ for Russia and for the people of Donbass.
This is why the matter you are talking about is: a) very important; and b) must be confirmed with authentic materials; this authenticity must be ensured. We will work on this as this matter is very important.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Danil Lesnykh: Hello Mr President.
I am from the Astrakhan Region. I am a member of the Young Army, an activist for the children’s public council of the Victory Museum, and an activist of the Right Makes Might association. I also participate in sports, practice kyokushin karate, and do breakdancing. I have already started thinking about what I will tie my future to, in other words, what profession I will choose.
I have narrowed it down to two spheres: IT and the military. But to be able to do something that you love you have to be personally disciplined in order to correctly make the necessary adjustments to your future career choice. This is why I would like to ask you, a person of the most disciplined character, for advice: how can a person correctly discipline oneself and one’s work?
Vladimir Putin: You know, I would not say I am the most disciplined person. There is a lot of work to be done in this regard, this is clear. But discipline is vital for achieving success. Discipline on its own is not enough, you need internal motivation to achieve your goals, an open-minded approach to the problems you are dealing with; an inner, emotional mindset and a sense of responsibility.
All of this must not block out another very important component, one that lies at the core of success – a creative approach to addressing the challenges facing you. Discipline and the like should not lead to tunnel thinking. It is an important component, but on its own it is unlikely to lead to anything.
Immanuel Kant, one of the world’s greatest philosophers and thinkers, lived and practiced his craft in the city where we are today. Incidentally, he, at one time, became a Russian citizen, even though this was a German city, for the city became part of the Russian Empire. The citizens set the clock by him: he took his walks at the same time in a very disciplined manner.
That aside, I would like to reiterate once again, such exactness must never block your road to creativity. You need to feel as free as a bird.
All of this together, to my mind, will bring the needed result, which is success. This is the path to success. And a strong work ethic, of course. All this together is very important. Having a strong work ethic is actually a talent in its own right, this is not just, I beg your pardon, a rubber backside. Forcing yourself to work and to do so productively, correctly arranging everything that needs to be done – all this requires talent.
All of these combined with the discipline, I reiterate for the third time, can produce results.
The fact that you do sports is very important, it broadens the mind. Military training, technical professions, and science, they are compatible today. Actually, all discoveries today occur at the nexus of various disciplines. And this is quite consistent. We have a structure at the Ministry of Defence [the military innovation technopolis] called Era, where young people with good, outstanding education serve in the military and are content, and achieve very good results. One thing does not necessarily preclude the other. It is very important to find something you love. If this is the military – wonderful; if this is science – fantastic; and if you love them both – then why not combine the two. There is need to rush, start to explore and you will find what you are looking for. You are on the right track.
I would like to wish you luck.
Danila Lesnykh: Thank you very much Mr Putin. I would also like to ask you for a favour.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Danila Lesnykh: Can I shake your hand, please? This would be a great honour for me.
Vladimir Putin: Sure.
Danila Lesnykh: Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin (responding to Olga Egoricheva from Bryansk, who is a mentor for primary school students as part of the social activity programme, Russia’s Eaglets, on the question of whether the President had a mentor in his life): Let me collect my thoughts, I will try to give an informal answer rather than promote the mentorship institution, although it is very important, as is the fact that you are a mentor. You are a young person, and for people of your age and a bit younger than you, if you are a person of influence, it is vital that you convey to the people who see you as an authority the proper and necessary information.
Mentorship, in the broad sense of the word, accompanies us all our life and starts with our parents. And this kind of mentorship is not professional, but more of a moral-spiritual kind; it is communicated via personal example rather than by using moral arguments. This is an extremely important point. We do not even realise it. We just behave like the people that surround us do and in the same manner as people who we see as authority figures. And these are, first and foremost, our parents and grandparents.
In this regard, I would like to recall something, and I believe I have already said this once before, but there is no harm in repeating, that my mother once told me: she was seven years old back then, a first-grader by today’s standards. My relatives lived in a village, they are village people, peasants, she was seven years old, when a beggar with a travelling bag – a homeless person – approached her. Here my mother recalled, “I sent him on his way.” He started asking for something, for bread, and again she drove him away. Her mother, my grandmother saw this, scolded her, and said, “Go get him.” She caught up with him and made him come back. “Now give him some food.” She fed him, then they found a place for him to sleep. He ended up spending the night at their house. The next day they bid him farewell, giving him some food and something else for the road.
My mother was seven at the time, but she remembered this her whole life. This is a life lesson. She told me this story when I was a kid, and I remember it to this day and now I am telling you this story as an example of generosity, of love for your fellow humans. This is a very important thing, which is passed down through generations by our families. This is part of our national cultural DNA. This is mentorship.
As for other mentors, I once had a teacher, I recall, in the first grade – and it is September 1 today – and I even remember her name, Tamara Chizhova. She was a kind, calm, and level-headed woman. I only vaguely remember how she treated us, very sensibly, I would even say in a motherly fashion in general. And, as you see, I have remembered her all my life.
Then I had another teacher, Vera Gurevich, who had a very big impact on me, I was older then.
Then I had a sambo and a judo coach, who taught us to fight to the end. To the end. This is a very important thing for every person, and for a future man, a boy especially. Anatoly Rakhlin. This too, a person’s upbringing, is what mentorship is all about.
And, as you might know, I started my career after the university in the security sector. Soon after that I started working in the Soviet foreign intelligence services.
I remember there was an old man working in an adjacent office, we called him San Sanych. He, San Sanych, worked in the adjacent office, but for 25 years before this he had an illegal assignment abroad as an illegal agent. To be clear, an illegal agent does not have a diplomatic passport and every day he risks his freedom, health, and maybe even his life. The man worked for 25 years in such conditions.
Once I gathered enough courage to ask him, “San Sanych, is this not an insult to you? I am a beginner, a young man, and you have worked as an illegal agent for 25 years and here you are, sitting next to me. Aren’t you supposed to be sitting somewhere else?” You know, I will never forget what he said in response. “Volodya, look, I could have easily not been here, I was offered other jobs. I did not need this. In my day the Motherland entrusted me with something that it did not entrust to others. I felt that my services were needed. I am not waiting for any gratitude from the Motherland for what I did. I am thankful to her for the opportunity she gave me to work as I did, to be in demand and to realize my potential. I am thankful to her and I expect no gratitude from her in return.”
You know when he told me this in such simple, relatable words, just like I did now, my world turned upside down. I discovered how precious our existence is and what life is about: it is not about satisfying your ambitions, but serving and realizing one’s potential in such a manner.
And it is my wish that you, too, have such mentors.
Geography
Kaliningrad Region
Topics
Regions
School
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 1, 2022, 17:10
Text version