Events
Meeting with Head of Rospotrebnadzor Anna Popova
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Anna Popova, Head of the Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare [Rospotrebnadzor] – Chief State Sanitary Physician of Russia.
September 14, 2022
17:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Anna Popova, Head of the Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare [Rospotrebnadzor] – Chief State Sanitary Physician of Russia.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Popova, I would like to congratulate you on the anniversary of your agency, this time in this private setting. Tomorrow it will be 100 years since its establishment. I would like to wish all the best to you and all employees of the agency, all the scientists, specialists and everyone else who, as I have already said, are working throughout our enormous territory, practically in every corner of our country; to thank you for your work and congratulate you on the anniversary of your agency once again.
I know that you are always on duty day and night. You and I were practically in constant contact during the acute phase of countering the coronavirus. How are you doing now?
Head of Rospotrebnadzor Anna Popova
: Thank you very much.
But I would still like to take a moment to thank you very much for your appreciation of our team, which caused such a surge of emotion just now. You know, it was not just a wave of emotion but a tsunami. I had time to get a look at my colleagues and saw their bright eyes, their joy. I am infinitely grateful to you for your appreciation of my colleagues and our service.
Vladimir Putin: They deserve it.
Anna Popova: Yes. And for your words. This is an advance for us and we will work it off.
Now about the epidemiological situation. On the whole, it is stable in the country for all infectious diseases. We have managed to inoculate people against measles and poliomyelitis. We also took additional measures in the spring of this year to complete immunisation for both the population of the Russian Federation and for people who were compelled by circumstance to come to us. There are no risks in this respect today.
We are starting to vaccinate against seasonal flu. We are anticipating its arrival. We are monitoring and analysing all developments and the situation is stable.
Speaking about the coronavirus, the epidemiological situation is under control. The last wave that came somewhere in early August is receding.
As we expected, the period from the beginning of the ascent to the peak lasted for no more than five or six weeks. The course of the disease is fairly mild. This is a different strain of the virus. It is very contagious but the course of the disease has changed. We almost do not see primary pneumonias or what is called anosmia or loss of smell. We do not see patients in critical condition in resuscitation or intensive care units. This shows that this is a different strain of the virus but it is spreading very rapidly.
At first, it was spreading in the central part of the country and in the capitals – Moscow, the Moscow Region and St Petersburg. Now it is on the decline there and the wave is moving to the regions. This time, the Far Eastern regions were the first to face this new wave, the onslaught of the new coronavirus strain — omicron ВА.4 and ВА.5. But it was also on the decline by the beginning of September.
Today, we continue recording growth in 50 regions. These are the results of the past week. We are seeing a reduction in 27 regions. It is quite rapid in the Moscow Region and in Moscow. The situation has stabilised in eight regions. There is no reduction but they have flattened the curve.
There is no increase in the number of hospitalisations. The increase during the last week was not big. And the increase in cases is higher for the time being than the increase in hospitalisations. There is almost no increase in the number of patients taken to hospital.
Infants under one year old and people older than 60–65 years are risk groups. Of course, the number of visits to doctors is high enough and the number of cases is also high.
But we have worked through all algorithms and measures. People in the regions are advised to wear masks in public places but we are not introducing any mandatory regulations. Today, we are conducting information and education work and it is producing results when it is done in real earnest but, unfortunately, this is not done everywhere. This is about the coronavirus.
Now we are moving into autumn, anticipating the flu, and starting with flu shots.
Vladimir Putin: Just a second. Does the vaccine we used against the previous strain work against this new strain that is not so malicious but still harmful?
Anna Popova: Yes, still harmful. Colleagues that are producing vaccines are saying that this vaccine protects against the new strain. It is necessary to be inoculated and the anti-COVID inoculation campaign continues today, too. We started it a bit earlier when we realised that a spike was coming.
I know that today colleagues are developing new versions of the vaccine and we are hoping they will be effective enough against future new strains.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
Anna Popova: With your permission, I would like to say a few words about the results of our work on your instructions. And, of course, about our core undertaking – the Sanitary Shield – that we are involved with. Officially it was launched in 2022 but we started doing it in the autumn of 2021. Today, we have nine test systems for identifying seven infections in 60 minutes. This is a very fast system and we focused on this. These infections include COVID-19, A and B flu, staphylococcus, fungal infections, candida, and black mold that unfortunately accompany many infectious diseases. Four of them have already been put into production and another three are about to be produced. In other words, we completed the cycle and we did this quickly enough.
To understand what variant of any microorganism is circulating we need to see what it consists of and how it is changing. So today we have already set up 15 sequencing centres (there were just a few when we started this). They are powerful enough and the number of studies has tripled (from 2,000 to 6,500 a week). We are seeing their variability. We are seeing how a pathogen changes (or does not change), and adjusting our anti-epidemic measures accordingly.
By 2024, we will establish 24 such centres under Rospotrebnadzor alone. This is what we planned, and it is working out. This will be Europe’s biggest national network.
We are working on the catalogue, also following your instructions, which we are doing as part of the Sanitary Shield. This is our national interactive catalogue of pathogenic microorganisms and biotoxins. We are digitising all we know, all cultures we have by sequencing them to make them easy to use.
With your permission, I would like to recall the situation with anthrax. When we dealt with that, it took us a lot more time to figure out than it would today. This is because now we have digital certificates of the pathogens we know and have in our collections. This requires much effort but we are doing a good job.
Of course, I must mention where we are uploading information on sequencing. Following your instruction – and thank you very much – we have created a national database (only for COVID for the time being) where we upload all sequencing results from all laboratories. There are 13 departments there and many laboratories. Any sequencing of the new coronavirus goes there. This has substantially expanded the amount of information.
We started this in June 2021, and today we have there 150,000 sequences, approaching 160,000. Our scientists contributed only 16,000 sequences to the international system. This is voluntary but we must share the information without violating any IP rights to this scientific knowledge. We see everything and we are quickly seeing changes in the COVID virus. This is a very good result of the past two years.
We have many other results and I will be pleased to share them with you, if I may.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
See also
Ceremony to mark 100th anniversary of State Sanitary and Epidemiological Service
September 14, 2022
Topics
Healthcare
Persons
Popova Anna
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 14, 2022, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Ceremony to mark 100th anniversary of State Sanitary and Epidemiological Service
A ceremony to mark the 100th anniversary of the State Sanitary and Epidemiological Service was held in the Alexander Hall at the Grand Kremlin Palace. The President addressed the staff of the Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare (Rospotrebnadzor) and presented state awards.
September 14, 2022
16:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
Friends,
I wholeheartedly congratulate those in this room and all staff members of Rospotrebnadzor who work in the regions of our vast country on the 100th anniversary of the State Sanitary and Epidemiological Service.
The service comprises 85 territorial divisions, 84 hygiene and epidemiology centres, 21 research institutes, 11 relevant organisations, and 18 anti-plague facilities. They employ over 67,000 people altogether.
The importance of Rospotrebnadzor to our citizens, society and the state is enormous and cannot be overstated. You have responsibilities in various spheres, all of which are focused on protecting public health and ensuring people’s welfare and safety.
We became fully aware of this – when I said “we” I meant the country as a whole – during the coronavirus pandemic and especially during the most dangerous and difficult initial period, when not only our country but the world as a whole knew very little about the virus and its specific features.
It can be said without exaggeration that the epidemic, which began unexpectedly and was truly horrible, came as a challenge to the whole of humanity, and it was your service that was the first to rally against it in Russia. You organised the necessary measures competently and quickly.
Let me note that prevention is the core principle and the very essence of what you do. Accordingly, your efforts to anticipate the way the disease evolved prevented it from spreading quickly, allowing us to buy time. This has been said many times, and I think that everyone knows this already. The entire healthcare system had the time it needed to prepare and to create conditions for effectively treating patients, while enabling manufacturers to launch production of the necessary medicines, equipment and PPE.
For decades, our country has been accumulating best practices for ensuring epidemiological security. It is essential that we cherish the traditions established by generations of public health officers.
In this connection, let me remind you that there was a debate during the 1990s reforms, and you know this better than anyone else, on whether we needed to have a sanitary and epidemiological service vested with extensive controlling authority and reporting to the federal centre. It is thanks to the firm position of the specialists and your senior officials that this system stayed in place. We now understand how important it was to keep the service running, as we have seen many times. Already in the 1990s, this helped the country overcome surges in cases of tuberculosis, viral hepatitis, diphtheria and measles.
Let me reiterate that our success in fighting the coronavirus pandemic is largely attributable to the integrity of the service’s top-down management structure, and its ability to take swift and effective action in extreme circumstances.
The staff of Rospotrebnadzor had to work hard, courageously and with the utmost dedication. In all the measures they took, they proceeded from a thorough analysis of the epidemiological situation in the region, devising clear procedural algorithms on a case-by-case basis.
The pandemic served as a driver for molecular and genetics studies, including the development of our own Covid testing kits. We reduced the time it takes to obtain test results by three times. I know that some regions have yet to overcome certain challenges in this regard, but the situation has changed dramatically compared to what it was like at the beginning of the pandemic. By the end of the year, Rospotrebnadzor will have 153 specialised centres devoted to these tasks.
Building a sanitary shield to protect the Russian people from potential biological threats is among our priorities as well.
This ambitious project will make diagnostics of infectious diseases fast and affordable and will make it possible to identify any unknown infection literally within 24 hours and, according to specialists and your executives, to develop a test system to detect it within four days.
I am confident that you will definitely be able to meet these challenges, which are directly related to the quality of life of our people.
Friends,
Humanity went through a long and difficult period before it learned how to control dangerous bacteria and deadly viruses. Above all, it was a path of gaining knowledge and skills, such as the complex process of creating vaccines and establishing seemingly simple rules of hygiene.
Combatting infections and epidemics began in Russia under Ivan the Terrible when the Pharmaceutical Prikaz, the first ever institution in charge of public health, was instituted. Peter the First transformed it into the Medical Chancery and Catherine the Great, into the Medical Collegium.
We pay tribute to many generations of talented and dedicated doctors and researchers. They often risked their lives in the truest sense of the word to discover treatments for terrible diseases that claimed thousands of lives.
Among these devoted scholars is Daniil Samoylovich, the founder of Russian epidemiology, who fearlessly and selflessly researched modes of transmission of the plague, made numerous discoveries and became known worldwide.
Drawing on the experiences of predecessors is one of the main traditions of Rospotrebnadzor, which was created on September 15, 1922. A network of sanitary and epidemiological institutions was created at that difficult time based on the foundation that was laid back in the period of the Russian Empire. Importantly, it covered the entire country.
I would like to note in particular the immense contribution your colleagues made during the Great Patriotic War, when both the battle fronts and the home front were reliably protected from outbreaks of dangerous infections.
Your work has always been based on the writings and discoveries of outstanding Russian scientists. The service’s development went along with the creation of research institutes and scientific schools, which gained traction and influence. Owing to their continuity, Russia is leading today in epidemiology, virology, microbiology and other sanitary protection areas.
Russian scientific thought and the extensive experience of its practical application helped to beat many dangerous diseases, while the protection of people’s wellbeing has come to be considered in an increasingly comprehensive manner with account taken of various aspects of everyday life – right inside society, as they say – including such crucial ones as the quality of drinking water and food products, and generally, in the broad sense of the word, protection of consumer rights.
Colleagues,
You honourably and responsibly perform the tasks that have been assigned to you. Yes, your work often remains in the shadows, as the saying goes, and is not noticed until trouble comes. But you are working proactively with an eye to prevention, and people in this country are often unaware of the huge efforts your service is making to protect their health.
This work undoubtedly deserves respect and the greatest recognition. I am referring, without any exaggeration, to the millions of people, whom your work has helped to avoid serious diseases and their no less serious consequences.
I want to sincerely thank all Rospotrebnadzor employees and veterans for the professionalism and reliability that you display in the course of your work, for your well-organised and effective efforts, and for your crucial contribution to the nation’s health and therefore to this country’s development.
Allow me to wish you success and all the best.
And, of course, I would be glad to present state awards.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: You may have noticed that at the beginning of the ceremony today I addressed you as friends. Frankly, during the ride in the elevator I looked at the text and saw that it says “colleagues.” But I cannot be described as your colleague. I am not a doctor, and so it would be wrong to pretend to be part of your profession.
Do you know what I was thinking during the ceremony? You are fighting an invisible enemy, a real and dangerous adversary – infections, pathogenic bacteria and the like. In this sense, you are fighting an invisible battle.
Yes, this is true. Just like it was during my time in the foreign intelligence service of the Soviet Union, you are seldom spoken about, seen or heard, but you are doing an extremely important job in the interests of our people and Russia. I saw more proof of this today, when nearly all those who received state decorations said, “In the service of Russia.” It was as if I was back in my former office.
Therefore, this is what I would like to say in conclusion. Colleagues, thank you very much, and congratulations on the centenary of your service. I wish you all the best.
Topics
Healthcare
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 14, 2022, 16:15
Text version