Events
Meeting with Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin
The President had a meeting with Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin.
October 9, 2022
20:20
St Petersburg
2 of 3
Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Bastrykin, I know that investigators of the Investigative Committee have been working for a second day on probing yesterday’s early morning incident on the Crimean Bridge. There are preliminary results of the investigation, and I would like to ask you to report on them.
See also
Instructions pertaining to emergency situation on Crimean Bridge
October 8, 2022
Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin
: Mr President, our investigative team of the Main Directorate of Investigations and crime and forensic experts promptly arrived at the site of the incident. They carried out a detailed examination of the site together with explosives experts and forensic team and reached well-grounded tentative conclusions.
We opened an investigation in accordance with part 2 of Article 205 “Terrorism,” and this is confirmed by the preliminary stage of the investigation. We interrogated numerous witnesses and eyewitnesses, special expert studies have been launched and largely completed – explosives expertise, DNA testing and a forensic analysis. Respective instructions were issued to the Federal Security Service and the Interior Ministry of Russia regarding investigative activities.
We have already established the route of the lorry which exploded. It drove through Bulgaria, Georgia, Armenia, North Ossetia, and the Krasnodar Territory. In addition, we have also identified the carriers – the persons who took part in arranging the movements of that lorry. The FSS field agents helped to identify suspects from among those who could have arranged the terrorist act and those who are active within the Russian Federation.
Additional
Executive Order on stepping up measures to ensure security of transport crossing Kerch Strait, the power bridge connecting Russia with the Crimean Peninsula and the main gas pipeline from the Krasnodar Territory to Crimea
October 8, 2022
Also, we are continuing the expert investigations so as to identify the exact purposes and tasks of this explosion. It is obviously of a terrorist nature. It is an act of terrorism. All our preliminary investigation data allow us to come to an unequivocal conclusion – this was a terrorist act which had been prepared by Ukrainian special services with the aim of destroying a large civilian infrastructure facility of crucial importance to the Russian Federation, especially to Crimea.
Vladimir Putin: I see.
There is no doubt here, as you have just reported, that it was a terrorist act aimed at destroying critical civilian infrastructure of the Russian Federation.
Alexander Bastrykin: Absolutely.
Vladimir Putin: And Ukraine’s special services were the initiators, performers and masterminds.
Alexander Bastrykin: Ukraine’s special services and citizens of Russia and foreign countries who assisted in preparing this terrorist act.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Topics
National security
Persons
Bastrykin Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2022, 20:20
Text versionEvents
Congratulations on Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day
October 9, 2022
00:00
Congratulations on Agriculture and Processing Industry Workers’ Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: My dear friends,
I’d like to congratulate all workers and veterans of agriculture and the processing industry on their professional day. First of all, I’d like to thank you for your work, and wish success and well-being to you and your families and friends.
Agriculture, a key sector of the Russian economy, is showing convincing, strong results year in and year out. Thus, this year we expect a record harvest of grain – about 150 million tonnes, including some 100 million tonnes of wheat. These figures seemed difficult to reach only recently. Indicators on other crops, such as sugar beets, soya beans and sunflowers, are also good. Livestock production is also on the rise.
We are fully meeting the domestic demand for basic, essential products and providing reliable food security. Moreover, we are building up our export potential, and – I’d like to emphasise this – we are ready to make our contribution to overcoming global food challenges and provide the necessary assistance to the poorest, developing nations.
All this is a direct result of your efforts, the difficult but very important and responsible work you are doing as agriculture and processing industry workers.
Work under unprecedented sanctions pressure poses new challenges to the agriculture sector. We will be addressing them jointly, with the support of the state, using the imposed restrictions for our own development.
We need to upgrade technological sovereignty in agriculture. Hence, we must enhance our potential in selection, genetics and seed breeding, encourage a transition to modern domestic equipment and technology, and create the conditions for further inflow of investment. The Government endorsed the updated sectoral strategy that includes these tasks quite recently, in September.
Improving the living standards in rural areas is, of course, a key priority. This means the construction of new modern houses and further development of the rural mortgage programme. This also means modernisation of the social, utilities and transport infrastructure and comprehensive improvement of rural areas. In a word, this concerns everything that matters for people.
I would like to thank you again – veterans and workers of agriculture and the processing industry – for your professionalism, responsibility, your assiduous approach, sincere love of your job and native land, and your striving to revive and multiply the best domestic agrarian traditions.
Happy holiday to you! I wish you luck, good health and well-being.
Topics
Agriculture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 9, 2022, 00:00
Text version