Events
Greetings on Interior Ministry Personnel Day
The President congratulated the personnel and veterans of the Interior Ministry agencies on their professional holiday.
November 10, 2022
00:00
The President congratulated the personnel and veterans of the Interior Ministry agencies on their professional holiday.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades,
It is a pleasure to be able to congratulate you on Interior Ministry Personnel Day and to wholeheartedly thank you for your professionalism and dedication in performing your duties, for your loyalty to the people, our Motherland and your oath, and for your substantial contribution to protecting state and public interests and citizens’ rights and freedoms.
Many of you are at your stations protecting law and order even on your professional holiday, and I am confident that you and your comrades are ready to face any danger to help people and to stop criminals and render them harmless.
Our most heartfelt greetings and wishes of good health go out today to the Interior Ministry veterans. We are proud of you and of your selfless and consistent work to address the tasks set to you. Thank you for sharing your experience and the ministry’s best traditions with young officers.
This continuity is extremely important for the Interior Ministry system, where absolutely all spheres of operation are always in the limelight and open to public scrutiny.
The people can see and assess your professionalism, commitment to principle, honesty and ability to show respect for human dignity under any circumstances.
These qualities and, of course, the practical achievements in the work of each inspector, detective, investigation officer and the personnel of other Interior Ministry services and units combine to produce a common result that is of fundamental importance to our citizens and the whole of our vast country.
Comrades,
Today the Interior Ministry must show higher standards of operation in fulfilling your complicated and responsible tasks. I know that Interior Ministry personnel have been acting fearlessly, courageously and unflinchingly in the course of the special military operation, cutting short provocations and subversive acts and ensuring public order in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions.
Overall, the number of serious and very serious crimes has decreased this year across the country. There are visible results and achievements in combating organised crime and drug trafficking. The number of road accidents and crimes committed by minors is decreasing.
I expect you to persevere and to work in a coordinated manner to prevent crimes and to cut short any manifestations of violence, arbitrariness and corruption in the harshest possible way. Your other priorities are the fight against extremism, violations of migration legislation and cybercrime.
I am confident that you will act proactively and effectively in these and other main spheres of operation and will serve the law and the people of Russia honourably.
Today, on Interior Ministry Personnel Day, I would like to wish good health and success to you and wellbeing to your near and dear ones.
Congratulations!
Topics
Law enforcement agencies
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 10, 2022, 00:00
Text version