Events
Video address on Rescue Worker’s Day
December 27, 2022
00:00
Video address on Rescue Worker’s Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades,
I want to congratulate the Russian Emergencies Ministry’s current and former staff on your professional holiday, Rescue Worker’s Day.
The work in all services and departments of the Emergencies Ministry is fraught with a heavy workload and often with great risk.
Emergencies Ministry experts brave the elements, eliminate the aftermath of industrial accidents and fight fires with great skills, determination and courage. They are ready to do their duty in the most challenging and dangerous situations, and promptly come to the rescue of those in need.
These are the best traditions of your ministry. Young employees should rely on these traditions and look up to the response unit veterans.
It is necessary to constantly improve professional skills, reach perfect coordination, and efficiently use the most up-to-date equipment and digital technology, including for preventing emergency situations.
I know that serious, system-wide work is underway in all these crucial, key areas. I want to ask you to continue focusing on it.
I want to commend and thank the Emergencies Ministry staff for their significant contribution to ensuring the safety of people in the new Russian regions – the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions. Their efforts include the delivery of humanitarian aid, participation in mine-clearing, and conducting emergency recovery work. People’s appreciation, respect and trust are invaluable and will always be the most unbiased, supreme assessment of the quality of your work and the foundation of the Emergencies Ministry public image.
Comrades,
Today, the ministry and each of you are facing many concrete, practical tasks that are important for the state and all our citizens. I am sure that you will tackle them efficiently and competently, and if necessary, you will act selflessly and bravely and will always be worthy of this noble mission – rescuing people.
I wish you and your families every success, health and all the best.
Once again, I congratulate you on Rescue Worker’s Day. And, of course, I wish you a happy New Year.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2022, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Conversation with Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan
The President of Russia met with Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan on the sidelines of the informal summit of the CIS heads of state.
December 27, 2022
13:00
St Petersburg
1 of 2
With Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan. Photo: Alexei Danichev, RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Pashinyan, we recently had a meeting of the intergovernmental commission, and our colleagues stated that our economic relations are evolving steadily: we have seen a 73 percent increase in trade over the first ten months of this year. This is a good result.
But there is something we began to discuss yesterday, and the three of us had a talk: of course, the main issue is the settlement in the South Caucasus, and specifically, in Armenian-Azerbaijani relations, the tensions around Karabakh.
So, as agreed, we will discuss all these matters at length.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan
: Thank you, Mr Putin.
First of all, let me thank you for the invitation, and for organising the informal CIS summit. This is becoming a good CIS tradition.
You are certainly right that our top and most urgent priority at the moment is the Lachin Corridor crisis. You know that the Lachin Corridor has remained blocked for almost 20 days. This is the area of responsibility of the Russian peacekeepers in Nagorno-Karabakh.
I would like to remind you that, according to the tripartite statement by the President of the Russian Federation, the President of Azerbaijan and the Prime Minister of Armenia, the Lachin Corridor should be controlled by the Russian peacekeepers, and the Republic of Azerbaijan guaranteed the unimpeded passage of passengers, cargo, and people along the Lachin Corridor.
Now it turns out that the Lachin Corridor is not under the Russian peacekeepers’ control. Of course, I would like to discuss this situation, and see what the options are.
Thank you for this opportunity.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to Northwestern Federal District
December 26 − 28, 2022
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Armenia
Topics
CIS
Foreign policy
Regions
Persons
Pashinyan Nikol
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 27, 2022, 13:00
Text version