Events
Talks with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
Vladimir Putin held talks in the Kremlin with President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev, who is on an official visit to Russia.
February 22, 2022
18:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 7
Talks with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev.
Following talks, the two heads of state signed the Declaration on Allied Interaction between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Azerbaijan.
In addition, Vladimir Putin and Ilham Aliyev
made statements for the press. 
* * * 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: It is a pleasure to see you. Thank you for accepting the invitation.
Your visit is taking place prior to a landmark event in our bilateral relations, the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. Today, we will sign a declaration on allied interaction, which will obviously become a new stage in the development of our relations, and it has been made possible after making headway in the Nagorno-Karabakh issue, although not completely settling it.
Despite all the problems that we still have, I think that we can be satisfied with the level we have reached. We will discuss this in detail today. But in any case, there are certain agreements, not only in connection with ensuring the safety of local residents, but also those related to the development of trade and economic ties and enabling transport communication.
I know that there are still some disputes, things to work on. But we are going to do everything in our power to ensure that the process moves forward using peaceful means and to attain satisfaction for all parties involved.
By the way, I know that both the Russian Federation and your other neighbours are interested in dealing with these issues, including those regarding transport. Not only Azerbaijan and Armenia are interested in this, Russia and your other neighbours are interested as well.
As for trade and economic relations, they have been developing progressively: despite the pandemic, our trade increased by more than 16 percent last year, which is a very good result. We appreciate that you support our interaction. We have very serious plans in this regard. Our economic ties are quite diversified and this lays the groundwork for further progress.
We also appreciate the resolution of humanitarian issues that are quite sensitive for us and, in my view, also very important for Azerbaijan, above all, the support for the development of the Russian language. I know that there are 300 schools in Azerbaijan that teach Russian and it is quite popular. We will support this in every possible way in the future.
Our regional ties are developing quite effectively.
And, of course, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity, your visit, to inform you about what is taking place on our Ukrainian track. As you know, Russia decided yesterday to recognise the sovereignty of the two people’s republics in Donbass.
See also
Signing of documents recognising Donetsk and Lugansk People’s Republics
February 21, 2022
I would like to say right away that we can see, and we predicted speculations on this subject, that is, Russia’s alleged intention to reinstate the empire within imperial borders. This has absolutely nothing to do with reality.
After the breakup of the Soviet Union, Russia recognised all the new geopolitical realities, and, as you know, it is working actively to strengthen our interaction with all the countries, the independent states that emerged in the post-Soviet space. We have always exercised great care, even in tense and very serious situations, like the Nagorno-Karabakh settlement, we proceeded from the interests of all states involved in this process, and we have always tried to reach mutually acceptable solutions.
Unfortunately, we do not see such a level and quality of interaction with Ukraine following the coup there; such interaction has disappeared. I would like to note that this happened precisely after the coup and the illegal seizure of power by those who had done this.
I have just spoken with the President of Kazakhstan, shortly before your visit today. I believe that this is the second very good example of the fact that Russia wholeheartedly supports the sovereignty of its neighbours, and that it strengthens such sovereignty in every way.
As you know, we supported Kazakhstan at the request of the Kazakhstani leadership within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation in connection with the external aggression by international terrorists. We withdrew all our armed forces, part of the CSTO
contingent, at the request of the Kazakhstani leadership as soon as this problem disappeared, and we continue to cooperate with Kazakhstan in all spheres of our work that, certainly, benefits Russia and Kazakhstan and strengthens the sovereignty of Kazakhstan.
We intend to continue acting in the same manner with regard to all our neighbours. I repeat, the situation with Ukraine is different, and this is related to the fact that the territory of this country is, unfortunately, used by third countries to create threats against the Russian Federation. This is the only explanation.
We will now be able to discuss everything in greater detail. I will inform you of the details.
In any event, I want to say that I am happy to see you.
Welcome.
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev: Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you for inviting me to Russia on an official visit.
I am happy that we remain in contact regularly. We met less than three months ago, in late November [2021], and today I have come to the Russian Federation again. This is evidence of the dynamic development of our relations.
We maintain regular contact, make telephone calls, and our in-person meetings are especially important, of course, in particular ahead of signing a vital document between our countries, as you have pointed out. It is symbolic that this is taking place on the eve of the 30th anniversary of our diplomatic relations, as you mentioned. I believe that this document will definitely have a very positive effect on our countries, our cooperation and on regional security.
We appreciate the friendly and good-neighbourly relations between our countries, which we continue to strengthen. The signing of the Declaration of Allied Interaction is graphic proof of our active relations in recent years and the build-up of the potential of bilateral cooperation. We have not merely made declarations or expressed intentions but we have translated them into action.
The Declaration is a comprehensive document with over 40 clauses. It covers the main areas of cooperation and, as I have pointed out, it will be extremely important for the future of our bilateral relations. Overall, political relations between our countries have been developing positively in recent years and are reaching the highest level ever now.
I would like to say that I share your opinion regarding the positive development of trade and economic ties. Bilateral trade has exceeded $3 billion, growing by 16 percent, as you have said. It promises to grow this year as well, as is evidenced by the January figures. We are implementing many practical projects, which we will talk about today as well, of course.
And thank you for your high appreciation of what we have been doing in the humanitarian sphere. I am grateful because you always note this and appreciate our efforts. And, as you have correctly noted, this is important for both Russia and Azerbaijan.
As for schools, I would just like to clarify something: there are about 340 schools in Azerbaijan with instruction in Russian, with more than 140,000 students. More than 15,000 Azerbaijani citizens are enrolled in Russian Language departments at Azerbaijan universities.
So, I think this is the most important and fundamental aspect of our relations and the future of our ties, because the Russian language has always united the countries of the former Soviet Union, and the next generations will find it difficult to establish communications without speaking Russian. Therefore, as I said, this is a very important factor in our life.
As you noted, today we will certainly talk about the situation in our region, the post-conflict situation. The Russian Federation has played a very important role in ending the war between Azerbaijan and Armenia and in shifting the settlement process from the hot phase towards the political and diplomatic plane. The tripartite statement signed in November 2020, with your personal participation, was what helped us finally resolve this long-term conflict.
The current situation is different – today the new geopolitical realities in the region are accepted by the international community. Russia also plays a very important role, I would say, a leading role in creating opportunities for the normalisation of relations between Azerbaijan and Armenia, for reopening transport routes, and establishing normal, neighbourly tires. We greatly appreciate this role and hope that the Armenian side will fulfill all the provisions of the November 2020 statement, just as we have.
So, we have an extensive agenda, and this visit is special. This is my 48th visit to Russia as President, but it is also a special occasion, because today we are signing such an important document – once again – one of a historic nature.
Thank you again for the invitation.
<…>
Geography
Azerbaijan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Aliyev Ilham
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 22, 2022, 18:35
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin answered media questions
The President took a number of questions from reporters about recognition of the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics.
February 22, 2022
19:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Vladimir Putin answered media questions. Photo: Sergey Guneev, RIA Novosti
Pavel Zarubin: Pavel Zarubin, Rossiya TV Channel.
Your decisions and statements yesterday have certainly evoked a stormy international response, a real uproar.
And, of course, there is a lot of speculation about how Putin allegedly wants to restore Russia to the borders of the Russian Empire. You have already said that this is not the case but in what borders have the DPR and the LPR been recognised? After all, Donetsk and Lugansk regions are large and Russian people live there as well.
And a question that suggests itself: what will happen with the Minsk agreements now? Russia has insisted on their implementation for seven years now.
And, of course, I have to ask you to comment on the latest news. The Federation Council has just approved your request to deploy the Armed Forces of Russia abroad. What can you tell us about this? How big could this operation get?
Thank you very much.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Deploying the Armed Forces abroad. Second, the borders of the DPR and the LPR, and the Russian Empire, right?
Pavel Zarubin: And the Minsk agreements. What will happen with them now?
Vladimir Putin: Let us start with the Minsk agreements – the Minsk Package of Measures to settle the situation in southeastern Ukraine. That is what they are called.
It is not seven but almost eight full years that we have been working on this. By “we”, I mean Russia, and yours truly was the author of these documents. Therefore, I would like to emphasise again that we were interested in seeing this package of measures implemented, because it was the result of a compromise.
The leaders of the two then unrecognised republics signed these documents. Incidentally, one of them was killed in a terrorist act. He was killed by the special services of Ukraine, an agent of these services. There is no question here. This is an obvious thing, simply an outright political assassination.
But what matters is that the leaders of the two republics signed these documents. We managed to broker this compromise at that time. By the way, it was not easy to do this because initially the leaders of these entities did not want to take part in the Minsk agreements and to sign their names to these documents. But a compromise was reached nonetheless, which was real progress towards achieving a settlement by peaceful means.
As it was said yesterday during the Security Council meeting, over all these years, the efforts of the current Kiev authorities reduced it all to naught. So, the Minsk agreements were dead long before yesterday’s recognition of the people’s republics of Donbass. They were killed not by us and not by the representatives of these republics, but by the current Kiev authorities.
In fact, yesterday's event – the recognition of these republics – was dictated precisely by the fact that the Ukrainian leadership had publicly declared that they were not going to abide by these agreements. Not going to abide by them. Well, what else can you say to that? The top officials have publicly said so.
What more is there to wait for? Should we wait for this abuse of people to continue, this genocide of the almost four million people who live in these territories? It is unbearable to watch. You can see for yourself what is going on there. Well, how can you continue to put up with that? As a matter of fact, that is all there is to it.
When we spoke to our European colleagues, they all said the same thing: “Yes, this is the way forward,” but in reality they were unable to force their partners in the current leadership in Kiev to do so. So, we were compelled to take this decision and, in this sense, indeed, the Minsk agreements do not exist anymore. Why abide by them if we have recognised the independence of these entities?
With regard to the borders within which we will recognise these republics, we did recognise them, which means we recognised their foundational documents, including the Constitution, and the Constitution stipulates their borders within the Donetsk and Lugansk regions at the time when they were part of Ukraine. But we expect, and I want to emphasise this, that all disputes will be resolved during talks between the current Kiev authorities and the leaders of these republics. Unfortunately, at this point in time, we realise that it is impossible to do so, since hostilities are still ongoing and, moreover, they are showing signs of escalating. But I hope this is how it will turn out in the future.
Regarding the use of the Armed Forces abroad. Well, of course. By all means. We signed treaties yesterday, and these treaties with the Donetsk People's Republic and the Lugansk People's Republic contain relevant clauses that say that we will provide these republics with appropriate assistance, including military. Since there is an ongoing conflict there, we make it clear by this decision that, if need be, we plan to fulfill our obligations.
Please, go ahead.
Veronika Ichyotkina: Good afternoon. TASS news agency. A question about Donbass as well.
Obviously, Ukraine cannot or does not want to recognise the sovereignty of the DPR and the LPR, and they are certainly unhappy about our decision to recognise the sovereignty of the republics.
After what happened yesterday and today, do you see any prospects for improving relations between Moscow and Kiev? If so, what should Moscow and Kiev do to make it happen? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: You know, we discussed these issues with our European partners during our talks and meetings for many hours. In fact, we also spoke with the Americans about these issues more than once.
I think this was not said in public, but I will say it. Naturally, this question suggests itself: what should both sides, or Kiev do for the situation to be considered settled in the long-term historical perspective so that we could live in peace and there would be no conflicts, to say nothing of armed conflicts?
I will reveal this dark secret to you. Ultimately, there is nothing secret about this. The first thing that everyone should do is to recognise the will of the people who live in Sevastopol and in Crimea. I have said this many times but I want to stress it again. In what way was this expression of popular will any worse than what happened in Kosovo? In no way. It is just that their decisions were made by parliament and ours at a nationwide referendum.
I would like to emphasise once again: nobody could have herded people into polling stations with machineguns or bayonets. They came there of their own free will and made their decision to reunite with Russia. This decision must be respected. If those countries that argue against it consider themselves democracies, they must recognise it eventually. A referendum is the highest form of democracy. This is my first point.
The second. We have spoken about this publicly many times and, in effect, this is the subject of our sharpest dispute with Washington and NATO. We are categorically opposed to Ukraine joining NATO because this poses a threat to us and we have arguments to support this. I have repeatedly spoken about it in this hall.
On this point, of course, we are proceeding from what many people are saying, including in the capitals of Western countries, I mean that the best decision would be for our colleagues in the Western countries not to lose face, so to say, and for Kiev itself to refuse to join NATO. In effect, in so doing, they would translate the idea of neutrality into life. This is my second point.
My third point, unfortunately, is not relevant any longer. I have always said that the Donbass issue had to be resolved through peace talks and implementation of the Minsk agreements.
Finally, the all-important fourth point. Everything mentioned so far could be upset in a second if our so-called partners continue to pump the current Kiev authorities full of modern types of weapons. Therefore, the most important point is the demilitarisation, to a certain extent, of today’s Ukraine because it is the only factor that can be objectively controlled, monitored and responded to.
Everything else can change completely in either direction overnight, the way, for example, the current Ukrainian leader made the previous leader persona non grata by initiating criminal proceedings against him for his allegedly treacherous actions, because he disapproved of the Minsk agreements.
These potential agreements, which I have just mentioned, could be repudiated the same way, if they were to be approved by the current leadership. He would just leave for Washington, Paris or Berlin and that’s it, while we would be left with an “anti-Russia” armed to the teeth. This is totally unacceptable, particularly now, after Ukraine’s current authorities have declared their nuclear ambitions.
Please, go ahead.
Alexander Yunashev: Alexander Yunashev, Life.
Mr President, yesterday, in your address to the Russian people you cited Zelensky, and it seems to be not for the first time, as saying that Ukraine might get nuclear weapons again and Ukraine might join the nuclear club.
Vladimir Putin: …I just said this.
Alexander Yunashev: Are these just statements or is the threat of nuclear weapons being deployed in Ukraine at our border real?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I have just mentioned it. We take it that these words were primarily addressed to us. I want to say that we have heard them. Ever since Soviet times, Ukraine has had fairly broad nuclear competencies, they have several nuclear power units and the nuclear industry is fairly well developed, they have dedicated schools, there is everything there to solve this issue much faster than in those countries which are solving matters from scratch. I will not enumerate them, you know all about it anyway. This is number one.
They only lack one thing – uranium enrichment systems. But this is a matter of technology, it is not unsolvable for Ukraine, it can be remedied quite easily. As to delivery vehicles, I think I already said in yesterday’s address that they have old Soviet-made Tochka-U missiles with a range of 100 plus kilometres, 110 kilometres. This is also not a problem in view of the competencies, say, at Yuzhmash, which used to manufacture intercontinental ballistic missiles for the Soviet Union.
What is the threat to us? The appearance of tactical nuclear weapons in Ukraine is a strategic threat to us. Because the range can be extended from 110 kilometres to 300, to 500 – and that is it, Moscow will be in the strike zone. This is a strategic threat to us. And that is how we took it. We definitely must and will take it very seriously.
Andrei Kolesnikov: Andrei Kolesnikov, Kommersant newspaper.
Mr President, do you think it is possible in today’s world to resolve problems with force and remain on the side of good? This is my first question.
The second one is more technical, if you will. In your view, how far might troops advance: up to the contact line, to the administrative borders of the DPR and LPR, or somewhere else?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: First, I did not say our troops would enter right away, after our meeting here. That is first. Second, it is absolutely impossible to predict the detailed path of possible actions. It depends on the concrete situation that is unfolding on the ground, as they say.
Regarding the question if all issues can and must be resolved by force or if it is possible to remain on the side of good. Well, why do you think that good must always be frail and helpless? I do not think that is true. I think good means being able to defend oneself. We will proceed from that.
Thank you. All the best to you.
See also
Address by the President of the Russian Federation
February 21, 2022
Signing of documents recognising Donetsk and Lugansk People’s Republics
February 21, 2022
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 22, 2022, 19:40
Text versionEvents
Statements for the press following Russian-Azerbaijani talks
Vladimir Putin and President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev made statements for the press following Russian-Azerbaijani talks.
February 22, 2022
19:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
Vladimir Putin and President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev make statements for the press following Russian-Azerbaijani talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
Ladies and gentlemen,
The Declaration on Allied Interaction between Russia and Azerbaijan, which has just been signed, marks the transition of our interstate relations to a qualitatively new level. This strategic document has become the centrepiece and the key result of today’s talks.
See also
Talks with President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
February 22, 2022
It is highly symbolic that the Declaration on Allied Relations was signed in the year when we mark the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Russia and Azerbaijan. Russian-Azerbaijani cooperation has grown stronger and expanded over the past decades, and now includes many concrete, mutually beneficial projects in the political, economic and cultural spheres. We are firmly committed to further developing our truly close allied interaction based on solid traditions of friendship, neighbourly relations, mutual respect and consideration for each other’s interests.
Today, we have had a detailed discussion of the entire range of current issues on the bilateral agenda. First of all, we discussed the opportunities and prospects for building up mutually profitable trade and economic ties. I will note that our bilateral trade in 2021 rose by 16 percent to reach almost three and a half, US$3.4 billion, whereas the flow of reciprocal capital investments stands at about US$6 billion.
The Russian-Azerbaijani intergovernmental commission will hold its regular meeting soon. We also plan to send Russian business missions to Azerbaijan to study the prospects for developing cooperation in energy, agriculture and a number of other areas.
Russian businesses are interested in collaboration with Azerbaijan in electric power engineering and are ready to assist in upgrading Azerbaijan’s power grids and to join in the renewable energy projects.
Effective partnership has been arranged in industry, too. GAZ Group and Azermash launched a joint plant last year to produce commercial and special-purpose automobiles. The rolling stock of Azerbaijan’s railways and Baku underground is being renewed with Russian participation. A KAMAZ service centre is under construction in Azerbaijan.
We think it important to further enhance the interaction of our two countries in finance. A more active use of national currencies in mutual settlements and Azerbaijan’s banks joining the Russian Central Bank’s System for the Transfer of Financial Messages would obviously contribute to that.
Russia and Azerbaijan’s cooperation in medicine and pharmaceuticals is on the rise. Our countries act as partners in countering the spread of COVID-19. At the peak of the pandemic, teams of specialists from Russia’s leading medical institutions were sent to assist Azerbaijani doctors, and deliveries of the Sputnik V vaccines were organised.
Cooperation in the cultural area traditionally proceeds at a high level. The Days of Azerbaijan started in Moscow recently, with exhibitions, concerts, literature readings and many other exciting cultural events to be held. In turn, Azerbaijan will host the next Youth Forum of the two countries in early March.
We are grateful to Azerbaijan’s leadership for the support and promotion of the Russian language and culture in the Republic. Let me remind you that the country has more than 300 schools with teaching in Russia while most universities have Russian-language faculties. During the talks, the President reminded me that there are 340, not 300 schools – we are very grateful for this as we attach great importance to it, we have been unable to follow up and count. Let me say that at present over 11,000 Azerbaijani students are studying in Russia with more than a thousand of them funded by federal grants.
Naturally, we paid special attention to the issues of normalising relations between Azerbaijan and Armenia. You are aware that yesterday I had a telephone conversation with the Prime Minister of Armenia. We reaffirmed the importance of the full-fledged implementation of all trilateral agreements on Nagorno-Karabakh reached by the leaders of Azerbaijan, Armenia and Russia.
We feel it is important that life in the region is being normalised and is becoming peaceful. Over 50,000 refugees have already returned to their homes. Practical issues of infrastructure restoration and protection of the sites of historical heritage, religion and culture are being addressed.
The Azerbaijani side praised the activities of the Russian peacekeeping contingent and Russia’s overall contribution to stabilisation around Nagorno-Karabakh. Our peacekeepers monitor the situation round-the-clock, ensuring that ceasefire regime is maintained, conduct mine clearance operations, take part in humanitarian actions and render assistance to the local population. Russian military doctors are taking measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, including by providing Russian jabs.
We have agreed to continue efforts to unblock all economic and transport links in the region as soon as possible. This involves restoring the full volume of passenger and cargo traffic between Azerbaijan and Armenia as well as the other countries of the region and drafting concrete collaborative projects for implementation in such areas as trade, industry, agriculture, and infrastructure. The immediate participants in the process, Azerbaijan and Armenia, are interested in this, as are all their neighbours, of course.
Another priority is the launch of the delimitation and demarcation of the Armenia-Azerbaijan border. Russia has worked hard to achieve the above tasks and targets and will carry on with this. We will certainly continue to give every support to settling any controversial issues including those of the borderline, and to help in solving the current burning problems.
In general, today’s talks have clearly indicated that Russia and Azerbaijan are both interested in ensuring stability and security in the Caucasus and Caspian regions and promoting integration processes throughout the entire Eurasian space.
To conclude, I would like to express appreciation to the President of Azerbaijan for our productive joint work today. I believe that the agreements reached today will serve to further strengthen the whole range of Russian-Azerbaijani relations for the good of both countries.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev
: Mr President,
First of all, I would like to thank you for your invitation to pay an official visit to Russia. I am delighted to revisit Moscow.
We meet on a regular basis. We also met less than three months ago and discussed important items on the bilateral agenda and regional matters. The intensity of our meetings highlights the dynamic nature of our expanding ties.
Russia and Azerbaijan are linked by age-old bonds of friendship and neighbourliness. As the President of Russia has noted today, they are being elevated to a qualitatively new level. We have a very broad contractual legal framework. Although 245 documents have been signed, the Declaration that has been signed today has particular significance and stands out among them.
This Declaration elevates our relations to an allied level. This is a great privilege and a great responsibility. We have moved persistently towards this event, we expanded the potential of our cooperation and built upon our relations that are based on sincerity, neighbourliness, pragmatism and consideration for each other’s interests.
Practical work on the Declaration on Allied Interaction was launched just over a year ago. Since then, the relevant expert groups from both countries have coordinated a very large document with 43 clauses, which encompasses virtually all the main spheres of our activity.
The Declaration’s first clause states expressly that the parties shall build their relations on the basis of mutual respect for independence, state sovereignty, territorial integrity, the inviolability of borders and non-interference in each other’s domestic affairs.
This clause notes the nature of our relations and states that these relations have withstood the test of time and are based, as I have already said, on friendly feelings, mutual interests and aspirations for the future. Consequently, this document sums up the result of many years of joint work and opens up tremendous prospects for the future.
We will strengthen our political interaction. As before, we will support each other at international organisations, we will expand mutual trade, the volume of mutual trade, and we will address all matters on the agenda.
Today President Putin and I spent over five hours together and the time flew. Five hours of intense communication in itself is an indication of how close and sincere our ties are.
We believe that new opportunities are opening in the trade and economic sphere. The President of Russia noted a significant growth in our trade. I am sure that positive trends will increase this year.
As you know, this year marks the 30th anniversary of our diplomatic relations: in April we will celebrate this date. We approach this landmark with good potential.
We have very promising opportunities in growing mutual investment. Today we also discussed in detail the possibilities for cooperation and deepening cooperation in the transport sector, and not just in a bilateral, but also in a multilateral, regional format.
Considering the new developments in the region and the new geopolitical situation, there is a platform for cooperation, called ”3+3“ scheme. I am sure that after the first step, the members and participants of this platform will continue to cooperate, in this sphere, too. The issue of opening communications in the region was also discussed today and, I think it has very good prospects.
I would like to thank Mr President for praising our joint activities in cultural cooperation. This sphere is always a focus of the President’s attention; we can say we are giving a boost to the development of this sphere. The figures the President of Russia cited about the number of schools teaching in the Russian language and the number of students from Azerbaijan studying in Russia speak for themselves.
I would like to add that over 15,000 students are studying in the Russian departments of Azerbaijani universities, and the interest in courses given in Russian is growing. There are also offices of Moscow State University and Sechenov Medical Academy in our country, and we hope to increase the cooperation potential.
This year we also plan to restore the regular sessions of the Baku Humanitarian Forum that were suspended because of the pandemic. The forum has been and will be held under the patronage of the presidents of Russia and Azerbaijan.
Today we also discussed issues related to the involvement of Russian companies in operations in liberated areas. There is a lot of interest, and even today we have received 14 applications from Russian companies, which we are looking at closely. I believe that this new sphere of our cooperation will be useful from the practical point of view, too, and that it will promote the level of our cooperation.
And, of course, we discussed in detail the post-conflict situation in the region today. We are grateful to Russia and President Putin personally for their role in ending the war between Azerbaijan and Armenia, as well as for their efforts to attain a post-conflict settlement.
I believe that, given it has been such a long-standing confrontation that has lasted for about 30 years and given that Azerbaijan sustained such huge casualties, the fact that Azerbaijan and Armenia have now been involved in at least two international formats for over a year highlights our intentions. These formats include a working group at the level of Russian, Azerbaijani and Armenian deputy prime ministers, as well as the “3+3” platform involving Russia, Turkey, Iran, Azerbaijan and Armenia.
And, of course, we are expecting the Armenian party to completely fulfil all clauses of the Declaration dated November 9–10, 2020, as regards the withdrawal of all Armenian armed forces from the territory of Nagorno-Karabakh, as well as the reopening of lines of communication between mainland Azerbaijan and the Nakhichevan Autonomous Republic. This is the Armenian party’s legally binding obligation. But, unfortunately, work is proceeding very slowly in this direction.
As I have already noted, President Vladimir Putin played an important role in ending the war and in transferring the settlement from the heated phase to the political settlement phase. Today, Russia is our main partner in the search for ways of normalising relations between Azerbaijan and Armenia.
Opportunities exist for this. Azerbaijan has repeatedly voiced its readiness to launch work on a peace treaty that would also encompass matters of specifying borders and other matters required by any countries wishing to settle relations between them.
I am confident that new regional realities will provide new opportunities. Azerbaijan aspires to a peaceful future, and we do not need a war. We have never needed a war. The liberation of Azerbaijani territory and the restoration of the country’s territorial integrity by military means was a forced measure. And our readiness to address this matter by political means during the post-war phase serves as yet another confirmation of our intentions.
I am confident that Russia and Azerbaijan will continue to make a substantial, and I would say decisive, contribution to strengthening peace in the Caucasus, to strengthening cooperation in the Caspian region and in Eurasia through joint efforts.
Mr President, thank you once again for your invitation and hospitality, and I would like to use this opportunity to wish new successes and new achievements to the friendly and allied people of Russia.
Geography
Azerbaijan
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Persons
Aliyev Ilham
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 22, 2022, 19:05
Text version