Events
Conversation with Vostochny Cosmodrome employees
Vladimir Putin and President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko met with Vostochny Cosmodrome employees.
April 12, 2022
12:30
Amur Region
4 of 4
With Vostochny Cosmodrome employees. Photo: RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I would like to once again wish you a happy holiday.
President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: I congratulate you on your decorations.
Remark: Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: As I already mentioned, we started this in the Soviet Union, and we worked together. The entire Soviet Union stood behind the first manned flight into space. We remember this well. I am pleased to note that these efforts have continued to this day. Indeed, the circumstances have changed, but we continue to cooperate. It is no coincidence that the President of Belarus is here with me today.
We have been discussing for some time now ways to use our common capabilities and competencies and to combine them, starting with simple things like construction work, and all the way to the creation of spacecraft. I mentioned the advantages of Belarusian enterprises in my earlier remarks, and we are using them in full. We are confident that this will benefit our space industry.
So, happy holiday once again, and I wish you continued success in your work.
I think Vostochny Cosmodrome is one of the largest construction projects in Europe and the world, a major facility with bright development prospects. As far as super-heavy duty rockets are concerned, there is work to do until 2035. The scope of the work is formidable but everything is going as scheduled. Unfortunately, the pandemic has taken its toll, and we had to shift the schedule “to the right side of the chart” a bit, but it has been updated overall, and the work will continue.
I wish you all the best.
Remark: Thank you very much.
See also
Visiting Vostochny Cosmodrome
April 12, 2022
Ceremony for presenting state decorations
April 12, 2022
All news about the trip to Amur Region
April 12, 2022
Dmitry Bolotov: Mr President, may I ask you a question?
Bolotov Dmitry, Vostochny Space Centre.
We are celebrating International Cosmonautics Day today in our country and around the world, too. What do you think about this holiday? Do you remember April 12, 1961?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I do. Oddly enough, but I do.
(Addressing President Lukashenko.) Mr Lukashenko, do you remember April 12?
I was a child. How old was I? I was 9 back then. Frankly, I did not fully understand what was happening, but I knew something great and unusual had happened. Strangers were hugging and kissing in the streets.
It really looked like Victory Day too, because for me, as a 9 year-old, it was clear that something unusual had happened. I didn’t know what outer space was, and what a manned flight into outer space for the first time in history meant, but it was absolutely clear that a grand event had taken place, and it had to do with our country’s tremendous achievements. Even a 9 year-old could sense the pride in the country in the air.
It was such an outstanding event that I kept everything that happened back then in my memory.
Of course, it was broadcast on television. Even children were impressed, let alone the adults who jubilated in the truest sense of the word. The country celebrated, and one might say the entire world did too.
I am confident we will have events of this kind in the future as well.
Thank you.
Nikolai Aistov: Nikolai Aistov, Russian Space Systems.
This is not a question.
You mentioned this issue today. I would like to say that all of us wholeheartedly support the operations of our army and we want the tasks and goals set for the special military operation to be achieved.
This is all I wanted to say.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: You can bet on it.There is no doubt about that.
The goals are absolutely clear; these are noble goals. I said this at the very beginning. I would like to point out that I indicated these goals in my first address to the people and the Armed Forces. The main goal is to help the people of Donbass, the people’s republics of Donbass, which we have recognised. It was a forced decision because, regrettably, the Kiev authorities, pushed by the West, refused to implement the Minsk Agreements that were aimed at a peaceful solution to the problem of Donbass and the two people’s republics.
They openly refused to do this. The President [of Ukraine] said that he did not like a single clause of the agreement, and other [Ukrainian] officials said that the agreements could not be implemented because they would destroy the country. They publicly refused to honour them.
We could no longer tolerate that genocide, which went on for eight years. This is the first point.
Second, Ukraine was being turned into a bridgehead, regrettably for us, into an anti-Russia bridgehead. They started nurturing the germs of nationalism and neo-Nazism that appeared in that country long ago. You know that, if you took note of what I said in one of my public addresses, they specially nurtured that neo-Nazi virus, and Russia’s clash with these forces was inevitable. They were just choosing the right time for an attack. The subsequent events have shown how much this has germinated. It is an obvious fact. Regrettably, neo-Nazism has become a fact of life in a big country with which we had close affinity. This is clear. It was imminent, and just a matter of time.
What we are doing there is helping people, saving them from genocide, on the one hand, and at the same time we are taking measures to ensure the security of Russia itself – it is obvious that we had no alternative and that it was the right step.
And there is no doubt that we will definitely attain the goals set.
Anything else?
Alexander Tarakanov: May I ask a question?
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Alexander Tarakanov: Alexander Tarakanov, NPO Lavochkin.
Mr President, can Russia continue working on its aerospace programme under the sanctions imposed by the unfriendly countries? What measures are being taken to strengthen our technological sovereignty in this sphere?
Vladimir Putin: Mr Tarakanov, we were just talking about Yury Gagarin’s first space flight. In 1961, the Soviet Union was in complete technological isolation, and the sanctions against it were overwhelming. Nevertheless, the Soviet Union became the first country to orbit an artificial earth satellite, the first man in space was a Soviet citizen, and the first space station was ours, and the first mission to the Moon was ours as well, if memory serves, the first spacewalk was made by our man, and the first woman in space was our Valentina Tereshkova, God bless her. We did all of that in conditions of complete technological isolation, and yet we made these incredible achievements.
Can’t today’s Russia, with advanced technologies at its disposal, continue to work on its space programme, which we have outlined until 2030? Of course, we will do it.
Moreover, this may sound strange because it seemingly concerns different spheres, but I have mentioned it many times: when the first sanctions were imposed in 2014, some of our industries, for example, agriculture, made huge strides. Our agriculture has become a high-tech sector. Our agricultural exports have even exceeded the export of our weapons systems by a large margin, by US$10 billion.
Of course, modern science and technologies are interconnected, and we are not going to isolate ourselves. It is impossible to completely isolate anyone in the modern world, let alone a large country like Russia. Therefore, we will work with those of our partners who want to cooperate with us. We will work on near space and outer space programmes, and we will also implement our moon-exploration programme.
As you know, we plan to implement the Luna 25 lander mission in the third quarter. Can we make it in the third quarter?
General Director of the Roscosmos State Corporation for Space Activities Dmitry Rogozin
: We must. The launch window will close in the third quarter.
Vladimir Putin: Well, there you go.
We will continue working. Even the Vostochny development plans are set out until 2035. We will continue to develop technologies and improve our competencies.
What we could buy with petrodollars and gas profits before – well, the money will remain in the country anyway. We will use them to develop our own competencies. I know this will do us a lot of good.
Alexander Tarakanov: Thank you.
Vladimir Tokarev: Mr President, I have a question.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, please.
Vladimir Tokarev: Vostochny Cosmodrome Directorate, Vladimir Tokarev.
Mr President, when should we expect construction workers from Belarus to arrive at the Vostochny Cosmodrome?
Vladimir Putin: President Lukashenko is here.
Vladimir Tokarev: Mr Lukashenko, we look forward to seeing you.
Alexander Lukashenko: We will not keep you waiting.
Vladimir Tokarev: Glad to hear that.
Alexander Lukashenko: You know, President Putin speaks about “sanctions.” And I was saying to Dmitry Rogozin, “You know, here it feels like there are no sanctions.”
Everything is your own. You make everything with your own hands. Why are we worried about these sanctions? Can’t we build everything?
Vladimir Tokarev: We will.
Alexander Lukashenko: We will do everything. We just need a bit of time.
This is why the President invited me here, so that I could see everything with my own eyes.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, to see the amount of work, the scale.
Belarusian builders have a very good reputation for being highly skilled. We will do everything.
But as I have already said, this is not the only area of our space cooperation. They have a very good company. They will use our developments and be in charge of the final production.
Dmitry Rogozin: Peleng.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, Peleng, a very good company. It remained from the Soviet times and President Lukashenko did not allow it to crumble and supported it. We will use it and work actively in the future.
These are quite specific things. We will make a high-tech vehicle. Builders will work here and we will develop space cooperation.
Vladimir Tokarev: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for this question.
Alexander Aleshin: Mr President, may I?
Progress Rocket and Space Centre, Alexander Aleshin.
More and more new specialists are coming to our Vostochny Cosmodrome every year. Yet, I have to admit that life here is not what it is in a metropolitan area. What do you think should be done to attract specialists here, to the Vostochny Cosmodrome?
Vladimir Putin: You said it yourself: to improve living conditions, to develop the city. I discussed this with Mr Rogozin. We believe it is necessary to build not only high-rise but also low-rise buildings, develop social infrastructure and develop cultural spaces. We have all of it in our plans and will do this simultaneously.
You know, initially when I just devised this project, the cosmodrome, I spoke about the need to accelerate the development of social facilities so that people feel comfortable here.
We have now looked at a runway for receiving aircraft but in addition to technological aviation we need passenger flights for people to come here.
We will develop the project across the board. We will focus on tourism, including in the Far East. Incidentally, I asked the Government to double cashback for those who come to Far Eastern regions. It is also necessary to develop technological tourism here so that people could come and see everything here.
Afterwards we will create conditions for bringing down the cost of travelling to the Far East, so that young specialists working here could freely travel to other parts of the country, primarily to its European part.
Our cosmonauts know this, that is the kind of people they are, and you too – you work in this sector: of course, there is something special about these people, who are captivated by the idea of space exploration, and we need to create decent living conditions for them, including childcare centres and the like. All these things are included in our programme and we will deliver on it.
I already spoke about it and I want to repeat: I believe this social infrastructure should be created at an accelerated pace.
Mr Rogozin, do not forget it.
Dmitry Rogozin: Yes, sir.
Alexander Alyoshin: Thank you.
Vladislav Zenkov: Mr President, allow me to ask one more question.
Vladislav Zenkov, Vostochny Cosmodrome.
We want the younger generation to know as much as possible about our country’s achievements in developing space rocket technology. How will the government support efforts to promote science education and professions of the future, so to say?
Vladimir Putin: This is a very important question.
Once Daniil Granin told me that the government should give more consideration to this – science in general and also high-tech sectors like space.
We will make films and write books on this theme on practically an assignment from the government and we will promote all these things at school. This is what we can and must take pride in and what brings young talented people to the sector. It is certainly a major sector. I believe Roscosmos is also considering this.
Dmitry Rogozin: Today, we have more applications for enrollment than earlier, with seven applicants competing for a place at the colleges and universities that train students for us. It is a good indicator.
Vladimir Putin: A large integrated facility is being created at the site of the Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Centre. The President of Belarus must see it. This will be our major rocket and space complex.
Dmitry Rogozin: With 20,000 employees.
Vladimir Putin: Twenty thousand people will work there. It is being designed for specialised research, as well as related sectors. It is very interesting, I would say captivating.
We will work on all of these projects by all means, simply because without them it is impossible to develop an interesting and promising sector like cosmonautics.
Then, you know what? You certainly do, as I have just spoken about it: space is becoming increasingly linked to various areas, from healthcare to, you know, the study of Earth and the mineral resources, as well as defence. So, if all this is skillfully presented to arouse interest in people, it will attract a huge number of talented young specialists to the sector, one hundred percent. No doubt about it.
Geography
Amur Region
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Regions
Space
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2022, 12:30
Text versionEvents
Joint news conference with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Following the talks, Vladimir Putin and President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko made statements for the press and answered media questions.
April 12, 2022
16:10
Amur Region
1 of 3
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko at a news conference following Russian-Belarusian talks. Photo: RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko, friends,
I consider it important and symbolic that the talks with the President of Belarus today, on Cosmonautics Day, took place here, at Vostochny Cosmodrome.
Our nations are proud that the first manned flight to space, by Yury Gagarin, 61 years ago ushered in a new era of space exploration.
President Lukashenko and I visited the Cosmodrome’s key facilities on this memorable day – the command centre and the launching pad for the Angara launch vehicles. We talked to Cosmodrome employees and met with the pilot-cosmonauts who received Russia’s high state decorations just recently, a few hours ago.
Everything that we saw during our visit to Vostochny Cosmodrome, all the successes in space exploration over the past few years show that our country maintains its leadership in cosmonautics. It is obviously a leader in this area. Russia’s space industry is dynamically developing with reliance on the powerful scientific and technical potential created over the past decades.
Importantly, together with our Belarusian friends, we have managed to preserve and enhance our close cooperation in space research. Our countries are carrying out joint programmes and we will continue doing all we can to promote cooperation in this vital area.
I would like to note that on April 1, on the eve of the Day of Unity between the peoples of Russia and Belarus, Mr Lukashenko, acting as the Chairman of the Union State Supreme State Council awarded prizes in science and technology to teams of Russian and Belarusian scientists for joint space developments.
We agreed to continue encouraging this cooperation, in particular, to intensify the work on developing a space system for the remote sensing of the Earth. These are devices for electro-optical high-detail video surveillance, which will become a key element in the EAEU-developed integrated system for producing space and geo-information products.
One more promising move is to involve Belarusian specialists in building space infrastructure on Russian territory, including this Cosmodrome. A law is about to be adopted to allow citizens and companies from Belarus to work on the territory of the Tsiolkovsky closed administrative-territorial formation of the Amur Region, where we are now.
We also discussed an orbital mission with a Belarusian cosmonaut. This could take place as early as next year.
Naturally, during the talks we reviewed in detail many other current bilateral issues. As closest allies, we are building relations on the immutable principles of mutual respect and support and traditions of friendship and neighbourliness which are upheld by our common history, spiritual and cultural values and close ties of kinship.
Belarus is our leading trade and economic partner in the CIS and ranks fourth for us globally. In 2021, our trade grew by more than one third – as we have just discussed – reaching US$40 billion. I am convinced that in the current situation, when the Western countries have unleashed a complete sanctions war against Russia and Belarus, it is important to deepen our integration within the Union State, and we agree with Mr President on this issue.
We will continue to oppose any attempt to impede the development of our countries or to isolate them artificially from the global economy. I believe this is pointless; Russia and Belarus have always been closely linked economically. As I said, we are tied in many ways, including industrial cooperation, and such attempts will never succeed against us. I am confident that we will become even stronger because we will develop our own competences and, importantly, we will not isolate ourselves.
Our governments and relevant departments have organised work on import substitution and the uninterrupted functioning of financial and commodity markets. The Union State has the following priorities: to unify and harmonise trade regulations, remove administrative and technical barriers, and create equal opportunities for Russian and Belarusian citizens and companies. These are the goals of the 28 sectoral programmes endorsed by the Supreme State Council on November 4, 2021. The President of Belarus noted today that our countries have already carried out over 30 percent of what we had planned by the end of 2023.
Thus, we determined approaches to the formation of a uniform monetary policy, currency regulations and integration of national payment systems with banking. We signed a contract on harmonising our customs legislation. We are working to launch an interstate centre on financial risk management. We are creating an integrated system for administering indirect taxes. We met halfway our Belarusian friends and granted them comfortable terms for servicing Russian loans. We hope this will help strengthen the entire financial sector of the Union State.
In energy, we finalised a draft international contract to create an integrated electricity market. Russia keeps its lowest prices on oil and gas for domestic consumption in Belarus. Payments for them have been switched to Russian rubles. This makes it possible to minimise the negative influence of the external environment on the position of Belarusian citizens and industrial companies.
The joint construction of a Belarusian nuclear power plant is nearing completion. Its second power unit will be put into operation by the end of this year.
In transport, we launched an integrated product tracking system. We are gradually integrating databases of government monitoring bodies in transport supervision. We intend to accelerate the development of new transport routes in the south and the east to guarantee delivery of our products abroad.
Of course, we discussed issues related to creating a common defence space and ensuring the security of the Union State. We analysed measures to defend our western borders, the course of military-technical cooperation and specified the plans for joint exercises. Mr Lukashenko was informed in detail about the progress of the special military operation in Donbass and Ukraine and the progress of talks.
Taking this opportunity, I would like to express my gratitude to our Belarusian colleagues for the efficient organisation of several negotiating rounds on their territory. A direct dialogue with the Ukrainian side was possible largely due to President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko’s personal efforts. We believe the Belarusian platform is quite suitable for further meetings.
Overall, Mr Lukashenko and I have covered almost all areas of our interaction today.
The President of Belarus has yet to visit Vladivostok. The President plans to see the cultural and educational centre that is being built with the participation of Belarusian specialists, as well as to become more familiar with the achievements of the Far Eastern Federal District in the socioeconomic and other spheres.
Mr President, I am sure this part of your visit will be productive and will help expand and strengthen our interaction.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Mr Putin, ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the President of Russia for the warm welcome on this land. This trip to this Far Eastern land is extremely important to us. This is a stunning and extraordinary land.
Frankly, I have long wanted to come here. For me, it was a kind of a romantic adventure. The fact that we had a chance to see the implementation of a project such as Vostochny Cosmodrome on Cosmonautics Day made the general impression received by our entire delegation even stronger. This is a world-class project, as they often refer to it. No, it is above world level. No one else in the world has ever carried out such a project.
Space exploration is our shared goal. During Soviet times, Belarusians made a significant contribution to the development of cosmonautics.
In our times, with the help of fraternal Russia, we have managed not only to revive the old competencies, but also to develop many new ones. As a result, Belarus has joined the ranks of space powers. In fact, we have created a new branch of the economy, space economics, and we are proud of these successes. Most importantly, we see prospects for the future which include developing a system for remote sensing of the Earth – a decision concerning this programme was made today, satellite communications and many other exciting areas of cooperation in this sphere.
The time has probably come to open the door to space for new Belarusian cosmonauts. I am grateful to the President for supporting this initiative and, moreover, for making a decision, in conjunction with the head of Roscosmos, to finance the training and the launching of our cosmonaut into space.
Of course, as Mr President said, we also had an in-depth discussion on other current issues on the bilateral agenda, on political, diplomatic, economic and, of course, military and defence matters.
There have never been such dangerous and complicated periods in the modern history of our relations with the West. I pointed this out when we discussed the issue that everyone is talking about today; I pointed this out to Mr President, and I said this for a reason, that if Russia had taken even a bit longer to start its military operation, a blow they believed to be crushing would have been delivered at the adjacent regions. We can clearly see today that this was more than possible.
Therefore, those who say that it was the wrong move or that it was made in the wrong place and at the wrong time should weigh it against the potential consequences of what would have happened had this move been made a month or even two weeks later. There is nothing more to add.
It is like the story in Bucha; we discussed that policy. There is a lot of commotion, but they just needed to adopt a new package of sanctions, as we know very well. We discussed their special operation today, the psychological operation carried out by the British. If you want to know the addresses, the secret meeting places, the licence plate numbers, the brands of vehicles they used in Bucha, and how they did it, the FSB of Russia can provide this information. If not, we can help. We exposed that ugly, disgusting position of the West together with our Russian friends, in full and from the beginning to the end.
Back then, we decided that the cold war was over, that the page had been turned and we would live in a new, civilised and fair world based on mutual understanding and the rule of international law. This is what we thought, but the West thought differently. They did not destroy us back then, and so they have decided to do it now. We are in an extremely dangerous situation; it is a showdown, and it did not appear out of thin air. Washington and Brussels have been deliberately moving towards this for years. It is perfectly clear now that, regrettably, the clash could not be avoided. Moreover, as I said before, it was only a matter of time and place. I would like to stress again that if we had waited a little longer, the consequences would have been extremely severe.
The governments of Belarus and Russia have prepared comprehensive packages of measures to overcome, among other things, the sanctions pressure, to support the economies, to expand cooperation and, most importantly, import substitution, to reconfigure supply chains and to switch to a new mechanism for foreign trade cooperation.
As we are responding to current challenges today, we must already be looking to tomorrow, which is what is happening here, and putting in place a ground-breaking economic development strategy for building the Union State for the long term.
They say the world will never be the same, which is true. For those who would very much like to return, as they say, to their comfort zone, we can say it straight: forget about it. The modern world is all about fierce struggle and civilisational clashes. Incidentally, the West has never had any illusions in this regard. By the way, there was once a major figure in Europe who, in the 1930s and 1940s, also tried to establish a new order. We are all well aware of how it all ended.
So, I think it is time for Washington to return to the recent past when our fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers stood up to the enemy and eventually won. We will also win, as has happened many times in our common thousand-year history.
Thank you.
Presidential Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov: Thank you.
We will ask the presidents to take four questions, two questions each from Belarusian and Russian journalists.
As is customary, we will start with our guests.
Question: Good afternoon!
President Putin, to follow up on your remarks, this question is for you.
You said it is symbolic that your meeting with President Lukashenko is taking place right here, at Vostochny Cosmodrome. Mr Lukashenko added that this project exceeds global standards.
I will start my question with a comment. We found out that President Lukashenko is the only head of a foreign state to ever visit this place. We believe that an invitation to such a facility is quite symbolic for Belarus and Russia alike. But there is a stereotype we often hear, especially in Russia, pardon me for repeating it, that we are like “little brothers.”
How appropriate is that in light of recent developments over the past several years? I do not know the answer, so I want to ask you personally. Tell me, please, how dear has Belarus become to you in light of recent years and events?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I would emphasise the second word: not “little” but “brothers.” We have always treated Belarus this way. And nothing has changed in the past few months. We had no doubt that if any country backed us, it was Belarusians, it was Belarus.
It has always been like this throughout our centuries-long common history. We do not even particularly distinguish where Belarus ends and where Russia begins, where Russia is and Belarus is. Also, however strange it may sound today, I have always said that we are a triune nation: Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.
There is no doubt at all that is happening in Ukraine is a tragedy. But the President rightly said that we were left without a choice. There was simply no choice. There was only a question of time – when it will start. This is all.
As for Belarus, I have already expressed my position: Mr Lukashenko’s presence here today is no accident. This shows once again a) the special character of our relations, and b) the pragmatism, including that of the President of Belarus. He repeatedly expressed willingness to take part in building such large high-tech facilities as a cosmodrome.
But we had a law that banned foreign companies and individuals from participation in closed territorial formations. But we have changed this law. As you know, we are changing it now. The Duma has already passed it, now it will go to the Federation Council and I will certainly sign it.
I would like to note one more aspect. Russia is interested in attracting specialists from Belarus, including rank-and-file builders, as well as specialists, engineers and researchers because, as I have already said, our programme of joint activities in space has several components. It is not limited to the participation of Belarusian builders in the work here, on this complex, but also implies the development of spacecraft and work on manned flights, which we will continue to move forward with. Belarus has preserved the necessary skills and competencies. We are now working on a craft, a satellite that we will jointly develop in research centres and design bureaux, but that will be assembled in Belarus. It is natural for us to continue advancing cooperation that dates back to Soviet times. We will do this on a new basis, of course.
I would like to emphasise it again – the fact that we are doing this with Belarus, and even in closed territorial formations, is symbolic and demonstrates once again how close we are.
Alexander Lukashenko: Excuse me, Mr President. Excuse me, Dmitry.
Our journalist asked his question with the implication that we are “little brothers” and we are somewhat different. This has never been the case! The President of Russia never called Belarusians or me a little brother. You know, this is my terminology. I keep saying, sometimes half-jokingly, sometimes as a joke, and sometimes in earnest, “So what? Little brothers!” If someone said that to us, and President Putin initially felt ill at ease when I said that, I would say to him, “Why should you worry? A little brother means that the big brother can criticise him any time, but he will also help by all means.” Therefore, there was a lot of sense in that. It does not mean that if we are little brothers, we are clumsy. No way!
During our face-to-face conversation today when we were one-on-one, the President listed all the competences the “little brother” has, and he generally mentioned it now. It is a long list. Thanks to Russia, we are a space power today. But we would not be so technologically advanced if we had not taken the decision back then to develop space technologies.
During the first meeting with workshop workers, the President said that space is an engine that drives entire sectors of the economy, high-tech sectors. We have had a good school since Soviet times; Russia did not leave us but helped us. We launched a couple of satellites which are still operating and have long paid for themselves.
Next, the nuclear power plant. It means top-notch technologies. Together with our “big brother” we have created these high technologies in Belarus by building a nuclear power plant. And the Russians, “big brothers,” taught us to build such plants. The key for us is – give us a reactor, and we will build everything else ourselves.
Next, BNBC [Belarussian National Biotechnological Corporation]. You see, the most advanced biotechnology processes, four plants in the world. We have set up this corporation in Belarus.
Defence. It is crucial. The President spoke modestly about it, however, at our talks we focused on the defence of Belarus and Russia. You know that the “little” and “big” brothers set up a joint formation, a joint army in the west. We are being taken to task no less than Russia, you know, “aggressors, aggressors” and the like, as if they did not know that we have a joint army. And once there is a joint army, it is not one part that fights while another stays at home and so on.
I did not conceal that. On the second day of Russia’s operation in Ukraine I openly talked about our role in that operation. Do you remember I said that we will never let anyone shoot a Russian in the back, and this was the essence of our operation, our participation in that operation.
So, we see what is going on, we see the Americans pushing not only Ukraine but also our western neighbour Poland and the Baltics into a standoff with Belarus. So, in this situation the “big brother” will help the “little brother” if needed. That is what it means, and not that the big brother is everything and the little one is unable to do anything.
The fourth area we created and take pride in is missile engineering. The President promised me back at our previous meeting – you know that we are making a more up-to-date missile within the bounds of international law – so he promised me to help in this matter so that we do not waste years designing controls for that missile.
I can name many skills the “little brother” has. One of them is construction. I told the President of Russia once – let us help in this case. Dmitry Rogozin came – he is present here, we discussed with him what we could do here. We can build both industrial facilities and social infrastructure. And the fact that the President has invited a president of another country – even if it is the “little brother” – to a top secret facility, and you came here with me, testifies to the high degree of trust on the part of the “big brother.”
And so I am not especially worried about that. Big, little – we have found a common language. I forgot about all the sanctions while I was here.
We will keep working in all the areas and no sanctions will bend us or keep us from our path. Try not to worry, take it from me. At least you have a brother, even if “little”.
Dmitry Peskov: Over to Russian journalists. Rossiya Segodnya, please.
Question: Good afternoon.
My question concerns the economy. How are the unprecedented sanctions finally affecting the economic situation? What macroeconomic and microeconomic effects do you see and how is the banking sector coping? Perhaps some industries still require additional support? Is there a risk that some sectors may soon enter a challenging phase due to the sanctions? Also, how might these developments impact the economic aspects of the union integration?
Vladimir Putin: We have already covered this issue multiple times. I can only reiterate what was said before. The blitzkrieg that our ill-wishers hoped to achieve was unsuccessful, of course. It is obvious. Our financial system and industrial sector are operating as normal.
Of course, there are issues – otherwise the Central Bank would not have raised the key rate to 20 percent. But, as you know, the Central Bank has already decided to lower the key rate and, in general, this measure is commensurate with the current macroeconomic parameters. As it turns out, the Russian economy and its financial system are standing quite firmly on their feet.
I believe that this trend towards maintaining the macroeconomic indicators and the smooth and paced competent operation of the economic sector will bring results in the days to come.
Of course, we do see and understand the risks related to logistics and payments. It is obvious.
It is also obvious that the Russian economy is stable and effective. I do not want to repeat myself. You can see for yourselves that the dollar exchange rate has returned to the level it was at before the operation, and so on. However, risks may increase in the medium to long term.
Russia’s opponents plan to intensify their efforts. On the other hand, it appears to me that common sense must also prioritise certain things. For example, we are facing obstacles with respect to logistics, port calls, vessel and aircraft insurance and other matters. We have just discussed this using the example of the mineral fertiliser industry.
If our Western partners change nothing here, the volume of Russian and Belarusian mineral fertilisers will shrink in the world market. But our industry will find where to send all this, I assure you. Many countries that we have not classified as unfriendly are eager to get Russian and Belarusian fertilisers. There is no productive agriculture without them. And if agriculture is unable to deliver productively, there will not be enough food in the world, in the world market.
Food prices have already been on the rise, even before the events we are talking about. And the increase is considerable. Prices of certain types of fertiliser are currently three times higher than before the crisis, and they continue to rise.
Among other things, all of this is linked to Western countries’ mistakes in the energy and gas sphere, because natural gas is the primary component in the production of many fertilisers. All of this constitutes chains that are hard to break today. We were not the ones to create these problems. But the situation will get even worse for our partners, among others, if on top of everything else they aggravate the financial, insurance and transport situation, including maritime freight carriage. After all, the dearth of food or exorbitant world prices will lead to famine in entire regions of the world, and this is inevitable. The next step is new waves of migration, including those heading to European countries.
I think commonsense should prevail, after all is said and done. And this is my great hope. Otherwise, those who initiated these processes stand to lose the most.
We are aware that we have to allocate additional resources to support certain sectors. We are also aware that the most correct decision in the emerging situation is to debureaucratise the economy and enable the growth of new production outlets based on newly created logistical chains.
In this connection, I can say that I have much hope for the rise of small and medium-sized businesses, the initiative from below, and the emergence of new leaders in Russia. The economy will adjust to the new situation without fail. If you cannot charter one ship, you can charter another. If you cannot send something to one country, you can send it to a third country. If you cannot buy something here, you can buy it in a fourth country. This is inevitable. The world today is much more complex than it was during the Cold War, when there were just two blocs and everything was covered by the CoCom lists. The world is more complex today and, in this world, a single country will be unable to maintain total domination.
What do we see now? We see the collapse of the unipolar world system that developed after the disintegration of the Soviet Union. This is the main point. The main thing is not the tragic events in Donbass and Ukraine; they are not the main thing. A lot is said about the United States being “ready to fight against Russia to the last Ukrainian.” This is being said there, and it is being said here, and it is true. It is the essence of the current events.
The economy is certainly part of these events. Some countries are trying to preserve their domination, including in the economy, but they will not succeed. Just take a look at the trends in global economic development over the past decade, economic growth in terms of the purchasing power parity, look at the leaders and the pace of development, and everything will become clear. Therefore, those who are adopting unjustified restrictions should come to their senses in good time and make a calm, correct, balanced and safe decision.
Alexander Lukashenko: I wholeheartedly support the opinion of the President of Russia that the era of the unipolar world is over. Simply put, a unipolar world is nonviable. The President has provided a more complex, philosophical explanation. Any system is more stable if based on more than one support. The more supports there are, the more stable the system.
Would it be a bad thing if the global system and the planet rested on four supports: the United States, the European Union as a second support, Russia, China and, possibly, India? Would it be less stable than the current system that is based on a single destructive, self-destructive support – the United States? I believe that sums it up.
As for the sanctions, I wholeheartedly agree that there is nothing good about them. They create additional problems and take up valuable time. Yes, we will create a new system, find new logistics routes and many other things, but this takes time, and we could have used this time to move forward, to accelerate our progress, instead of wasting our time trying to find alternative routes and to figure things out.
Yes, indeed, the world is different today, and it will be impossible to crush anyone, including such a huge country as Russia, which is absolutely self-sufficient but once came to believe in globalism and opened up its markets to its partners. Well, they behaved accordingly. We are telling them, “All right, goodbye, we will get along on our own.”
And we can do everything. Today, we devoted a lot of attention to co-production matters. We talked a lot about our common market. I told the President that, as they say, Belarus is not as huge as Russia, it is smaller, but good things come in small packages.
This is not the most important matter. As the President often says, competencies come first. Look, we have arrived here. It turns out that a gigantic Russia is interested in developing spacecraft together with us. We have these competencies, and Russia will be using them.
Take construction, the simplest aspect. In Soviet times, Belarus served as a school for construction workers. The best builders lived in Belarus. And where have they gone? Well, they are still there. If we obtain a contract here today at the suggestion of President Putin, there is nothing wrong with that.
Four or five months ago, the President and I discussed the issue of more advanced high-tech production facilities, including the creation and manufacture of semiconductors. We found many enterprises in Russia and Belarus, and we are now consolidating them, including Integral and others. The President promised financial support, and we will also do our best.
As I often say, we can provide Dmitry Rogozin with a different and slightly larger printed circuit board and control system. However, it will operate smoothly, the spacecraft will lift off and return. Spacecraft have returned in the past, and this will also be the case now. In due time, we will catch up with them and overtake them, no matter what, because we are determined to do so and because we are not hampering anyone’s work.
We are therefore steering towards co-production and a common market. Our survey shows that Belarus manufactures several thousand items. The President of Russia asked us to provide Russia with these items, in order to assess local demand for them. We did not refuse to provide even one item, and we delivered foodstuffs and petroleum derivatives, although Russia is an oil power, etc. This list included refrigerators, television sets, washing machines, detergents, and all the other products that we manufacture. Thank God, all this is now in high demand in Russia.
As for funding, lending and other opportunities, Russia is a great help to us in these circumstances. You know that everything that we produce we can sell here, which means we are happy with payments in Russian rubles. We have finally started trading in rubles, including oil, gas and other commodities. We are fine with that.
We have two major products. The President of Russia mentioned fertilisers. We have potassium, phosphorus and nitrogen fertilisers. We have all of them. Trust me, it is only a matter of time. When the world begins to starve, they will realise that without fertilisers, there is no harvest. Trust me, I know something about this.
The Americans swaggered for a while but eventually, they too had to admit that Russian fertilisers must be allowed into the markets immediately. They opened a window – and yet, shipments are still blocked in ports. They will come to their senses tomorrow – or farmers will force them to. The public will soon take the matter into their own hands.
The second major commodity is petroleum products. We also discussed this issue today and agreed that we will find a solution. In fact, we did. The governments of Belarus and Russia will act on the decisions of the two presidents.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to add a couple of words here. Of course, we are interested in cooperating with hi-tech economies – everybody understands this obvious intention. But here is the problem: in the course of this cooperation, we became hooked on somebody else’s technology and hi-tech products. We stopped improving our own competencies and our own engineering schools in certain industries.
It turns out that within the system that was established and that continues to exist in the world economy, it is possible to take action and steps beyond publicly declared rules. The best example, which I have already mentioned many times, is our Irkut MC-21 aircraft. As soon as we moved forward with this hi-tech product – notably, without anybody’s help – they immediately cut us off from composite materials, for no reason. Why? To make sure that our production process was frozen and the aircraft did not enter the market before Boeing. So much for rules.
Yes, clearly challenges are inevitable. But there is a gaping window of opportunity. We will have to develop our own competencies and our own science. We will use this new base to move forward – also taking into account other countries’ achievements. Nobody can close all the doors and all the windows.
Question: Good evening.
Mr Lukashenko, much was said about Belarusian construction workers, our cosmonaut, and a new satellite today.
Leaving the cosmic sphere for more mundane topics, what issues in Belarusian-Russian relations still need special attention from the presidents?
Alexander Lukashenko: You know, all areas of our activities that have been discussed for a long time without much to show for it are now the focus of our attention and analysis. There is not a single issue that could be raised by either president, or a respective government, that would go without attention.
Indeed, not a single issue. Today, we discussed oil and gas, including pricing. Moreover, the President told me that Russia would support our oil refineries in the same way they are supported in the Russian Federation. The governments are working on this.
I was surprised to find out that the President is absolutely abreast of the situation in our common market and the groups of goods that we are currently supplying to Russia, and that Russia is selling in the common market, including in Belarus, and specific types of goods, such as machine-building etc., right down to agriculture with specific knowledge about what and where to sow…
So, we discussed these issues including the military, and it appears that whatever issue I raised (I raised more issues than he did) I received support, not just a positive reaction, but support. So, I cannot say we have any issues. There will always be challenges, but they can all be resolved, and we are working to overcome them.
Dmitry Peskov: We will take the last question today from Kommersant, please go ahead.
Question: Good afternoon.
I have a question for the President of Russia. This is not a short question, but the situation is multipronged, so the question will be multipronged as well.
Mr President, you said you updated the President of Belarus on the progress of the special operation. Could you please tell us what you think about the special operation as of today?
In this regard, one more question. What do you think about the course of the talks between the Russian and Ukrainian delegations? Also, in connection with this, because everything is connected with it, I have a question about the developments in Bucha and Kramatorsk. After all, clearly, most of the world has rejected the logic of Russia’s explanations for what happened there. Please, what is your logic there?
Yesterday, the Chancellor of Austria said you lived in the logic of military operations, the logic of war. Hence, there is no place for talks. Please tell us about your real logic.
Thank you.
I have a short question for the President of Belarus. The President of Russia has instructed Dmitry Rogozin to send a Belarusian cosmonaut into space. Would you like to be the one?
Thank you.
Alexander Lukashenko: Yes, I would. I used to think “big brother” could send me there and leave me there, but today I do not think that, so I would like to go into space. But I have a candidate in mind, and I will think about it.
Vladimir Putin: The special military operation is proceeding as planned. Of course, I am closely monitoring the discussion in our society and abroad. We must not keep anything from the public or keep anything secret; we must provide objective information about this combat operation.
First of all, I would like to express gratitude to begin my response by expressing my gratitude to the Russian soldiers and officers, the Russian service poersonnel for their heroic service to the Fatherland. This is exactly how they are acting. By fulfilling complicated and dangerous objectives in Donbass and Ukraine, our military personnel are protecting the interests of Russia and defending Russia.
It is with good reason that the President of Belarus has said, and I said this even before the operation, that confrontation with the forces that have been nurtured by far-right nationalists and neo-Nazis in Ukraine was inevitable, and that it was only a matter of time. They were preparing and biding their time, and we, as I said back then, will not allow them to do this. This is the logic behind our actions.
What is taking place in Ukraine, considering that Ukrainians are our fraternal people, something I want to stress even in these tragic circumstances, first of all, this Ukrainian nationalism originated back in the 19th century. We know that it was encouraged before World War I primarily by the Austrian General Staff. What for? The answer is the notorious logic: divide and conquer. Divide the Russian people and destroy them piecemeal.
The same method was used during World War II. We know that the Polish pogroms and Jewish pogroms were not perpetrated by Germans but by the same Waffen SS Galicia, Banderites and the other pro-Nazi bastards. They exterminated peaceful civilians: Russians, Jews and Poles.
This is a common fact. And today we can see in Ukrainian newsreels people with SS Galicia sleeve patches in the combat zone in Donbass. This means that we acted correctly and at the right time when we started this operation, or there would have been many more such people there.
As for the course of the operation as such, I always hear questions on whether it could be done quicker. It could; it depends on the intensity of the military operations but, unfortunately, this could entail more losses in one way or another. Our job is to reach all our goals while minimizing these losses. And we will be acting smoothly and calmly, according to the initial plan of the General Headquarters. I have spoken about this many times. There is no need to repeat all this at the news conference.
Actions in certain areas of Ukraine are only aimed at containing the enemy, strikes to destroy the military infrastructure and create conditions for more active operations on the territory of Donbass. Meanwhile, the goal of our entire operation, I will repeat what I said in the early hours of February 24, is to help the people living in Donbass who feel inseparably linked to Russia and who have been subjected to genocide for eight years. The only question is how…
Alexander Lukashenko: Today, this is the occupation by Ukraine, as you said.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, occupation by Ukraine as well. This is exactly what it is after their independence was recognised. This is how matters stand. The operation is going according to plan.
Now regarding our logic, it is simple. After all, during preparations for World War I and during World War II, a certain segment of the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian society especially those linked with Western ideology, was against Russia. These attempts are also being made today, in our time.
As for the people in military uniform with SS Division Galicia stripes – they are simply scum. But there are others who sympathise with them. They consider themselves nationalists rather than Nazis. However, they must also realise that the main goal of the West is not to help Ukraine. Ukraine is just a means to reaching goals that have nothing to do with the interests of the Ukrainian people. This is what the problem is, and what determines the logic of our actions in Donbass and in Ukraine as a whole.
As for Bucha… Now, listen, I often talked to my colleagues from the Western countries, up until now, and when they say “Bucha” to me, I ask them whether they have ever been to Raqqa? Did they see this Syrian city that was razed to the ground by US aviation?
Indeed, the dead bodies have been lying in the ruins for months on end decomposing. Nobody cared about them before that, and no one even noticed, just as no one remembers hundreds of dead civilians in Afghanistan, when a hundred or more civilians were killed at a wedding in one air strike. Silence. This silence was not there when they staged provocations in Syria and manufactured the alleged use of chemical weapons by the Assad government. Then it turned out that it was a fake, just like the fake in Bucha.
Mr President gave me some documents, which he mentioned in passing today, which were forwarded to the Russian Federal Security Service, about who did this and how – our colleagues have this information intercepted – what transport they used to get to that town and create the scene for staging this provocation and fake.
With regard to the negotiations, look, we reached certain agreements in Istanbul, under which security guarantees for Ukraine – and the Ukrainian side is striving to obtain very strict security guarantees for itself – will not apply to Crimea, Sevastopol and Donbass.
Then, as you know, we made certain efforts to create a proper environment for continuing the negotiating process. In return, we saw the provocation in Bucha and, most importantly, the Ukrainian side walked away from the Istanbul agreements. Now, security requirements have become a separate issue, and regulating our relations over Crimea, Sevastopol and Donbass will be taken out of the scope of these agreements. That is, they have returned to a dead-end for themselves and for all of us.
I was told that the Ukrainian side made some changes again last night. I am not aware of what these changes are. But this kind of inconsistency regarding fundamental issues creates certain difficulties on the negotiating track if we want to reach final agreements that are acceptable to everyone. And until this happens, the military operation will continue until it is completed and the goals that were set at the beginning of this operation are fulfilled.
As for the united West, this became obvious long ago. I believe the media can see it as well, but this is not a subject they are comfortable with.
What is behind its consolidation? It is Europe’s insulting and humiliating position with regard to its sovereign, that is, the United States. You may remember that the British press once referred to a former British prime minister – I will not name him here – as “the US President’s poodle.” Isn’t that insulting?
However, it is a fact of life that nearly all of the European countries’ leaders are in the same irritating position, but they cannot talk about it. It is unpleasant and shameful to talk about it. Today they have Russian aggression and a common enemy. It is a convenient pretext for closing ranks and serving US interests. They have aways served them, but today they can do it openly, taking decisions that benefit the United States, including in the economy, and explaining it by the need to repel an aggressor. This is what I think is happening now.
But the public in these countries, especially when people face the problems created by this political line, yes, they succumb to the general rhetoric, the anti-Russia hysteria. But I assure you that time will put everything in its place. When people see growing fuel and food prices and an unprecedented inflation rate, this will certainly influence the domestic political process.
They wanted very much for the developments to affect the internal political processes in the Russian Federation. But they always miscalculate, unable to understand that the Russian people always pull together in times of trouble. They will see this yet, and their own problems are inevitable. They want to create these problems for us, and they are doing it. Yes, it will be difficult for some sectors, but we will deal with these difficulties.
Dmitry Peskov: This will be all. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Komsomolskaya Pravda has a question.
Remark: A very short question, if I may.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead.
Question: Since there are two presidents here, I have a question that may not be all that serious.
About two months ago, President Lukashenko said in an injured voice that he had asked Vladimir Putin to promote him to colonel, because he was still a lieutenant colonel. “If Putin promotes me to colonel, I will promote him to general,” he said. How much of this is a joke?
Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko does not need the head of a foreign state to promote him. He is a big boss himself.
As you now, I do not have a general’s rank, but I serve my people honestly. And besides, ranks are for military personnel. As for President Lukashenko, he is on the frontline, and so he needs general’s stars more than I do. But then, this is something for him to decide.
Alexander Lukashenko: It would be great if I were a colonel as well. The truth is that he did promise to promote me but has not acted on his word. (Laughter)
Vladimir Putin: If I promised, then I will do it. Will this be all?
Dmitry Peskov: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Alexander Lukashenko: Thank you, everyone.
See also
All news about the trip to Amur Region
April 12, 2022
Geography
Amur Region
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Space
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2022, 16:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin held talks with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko at Vostochny Cosmodrome.
April 12, 2022
15:20
Amur Region
1 of 3
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko,
Thank you very much for coming here, to the Russian Far East, to a project that is still under construction but is already working, our new Vostochny Cosmodrome. You have seen the scale of the project.
It is symbolic that we are meeting here on April 12, Cosmonautics Day, because very many things in the life of the former Soviet Union, in our lives and in the life of our generations, are associated with that day, April 12, 1961. It was a day of triumph for the Soviet Union, the day of the first man in space, the first manned flight. It is pleasant that we are talking about continuing our cooperation today, under new conditions, based on the achievements reached in the previous decades and the latest best practices.
I am referring to the creation of a new satellite for high-resolution remote sensing of the Earth and our future joint project on plasma engine, which we can make use of; it is a highly promising area. Of course, there is also the construction of the cosmodrome – we need good construction professionals, with high competencies and good technologies. Thanks to your efforts, Belarus has not only preserved all these resources but is actively developing them, and we can use them to address our common goals, which will undoubtedly boost the development of our economies and high technologies in our countries.
Of course, I would like to use this occasion, our meeting today, to talk about our continued cooperation in the spheres we have outlined for the further development of the Union State. There is still much to do.
Despite the so-called external pressure, our economic relations are growing successfully. Our trade has reached nearly US$40 billion or more precisely US$38 billion, which is a very good indicator. Belarus is one of Russia’s leading trade partners.
See also
Visiting Vostochny Cosmodrome
April 12, 2022
All news about the trip to Amur Region
April 12, 2022
Moreover, the current circumstances and external pressure offer us new opportunities to make use of all our potential capabilities to support each other and to provide unconditional support to our development, including in such high-tech spheres as space exploration.
This is in addition to [our cooperation in] agriculture and industry. We have done a great deal over the past years to boost our cooperation. Essentially, we have opened up our market to Belarusian goods. I believe that it is a very good pillar of cooperation on both sides.
I would also like to mention our cooperation in energy, including nuclear energy (we are completing a major project in Belarus) and hydrocarbons, that is, oil and gas. There are issues we need to consider and discuss, including industry, and not only the production of agricultural equipment but also many other branches, mechanical engineering, namely heavy machine building.
I am delighted to see you. Welcome.
To be continued.
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2022, 15:20
Text versionEvents
Working meeting with Amur Region Governor Vasily Orlov
The President of Russia met with Amur Region Governor Vasily Orlov in Blagoveshchensk. Mr Orlov informed the President about the socio-economic situation in his region.
April 12, 2022
19:10
Blagoveshchensk
With Amur Region Governor Vasily Orlov.
Vasily Orlov
reported to the President on the growth of investment and the GRP. He said that last year the industrial production index was 105 percent. In addition to the four large federal projects ‒ the BAM-2, the Vostochny Cosmodrome, Gazprom’s gas-processing plant, and the Sibur petrochemical complex, the region is implementing another 58 investment projects worth a total of 432 billion rubles.
The region leads the Far East in the number of projects with 403 projects worth a total of 25 billion rubles carried out in the public-private partnership format. Last year, the region signed another concession agreement for rebuilding Blagoveshchensk Airport. A modern terminal will be completed by 2024. The cost of the project is 8 billion rubles.
Despite the floods, agriculture did very well last year. The gross yield on all crops was excellent. The region produced 1,175,000 tonnes of soya, its main crop. Next year, it plans to turn out 1,350,000 tonnes of soya. This is possible because of the agriculture support programme for farms. Federal funds are allocated via the Ministry of Agriculture, in part, for the purchase of equipment. Last year, 5.5 billion rubles worth of equipment was purchased. Another 270 units will be purchased this year. Ninety percent of equipment is of Russian make. In addition, agricultural producers that receive these subsidies were supposed to increase the share of high-reproduction seed, the amount of fertiliser used and to practice crop rotation. This definitely improved the crop yield.
Last year, a new poultry farm and a dairy farm were put into operation. This year, the region plans to open another three dairy farms with 7,000 head.
Replying to the President’s question on flood forecasts, Mr Orlov explained how they are protecting the coastline, building a dam and determining vulnerable flood areas.
Gas infrastructure development was also discussed at the meeting. The region endorsed a plan for a first stage, up to 2025, when 12 percent of households will be supplied with gas directly. The second stage provides for the use of LNG in a number of remote localities that do not have gas mains. Gazprom is building LNG capacity at its gas plant, and the Governor believes increased LNG availability will provide good impetus for using gas in transport.
Mr Orlov told the President about the implementation of the 11 national projects. All indicators have been achieved with the exception of one in healthcare, notably, average life span. This is, of course, due to the coronavirus. Therefore, the region’s doctors are now focusing on the treatment of their COVID patients, on their recovery.
The region is spending more money on major repairs and on the construction of new medical facilities. In 2019, these funds amounted to 200 million rubles whereas the allocations for 2021 topped 2 billion rubles.
The Governor addressed the President with a request regarding the Trans-Siberian Railway. In the Amur Region, the railway cuts several cities and other residential areas in half, for historical reasons. The Governor believes overpasses are needed in many locations because people sometimes sit for hours waiting at crossing barriers. Rail traffic is very heavy on the Trans-Siberian Railway, and intervals between trains is sometimes only seven minutes and will soon go down to four minutes.
In this context, the Governor spoke about the region’s proposal to build five overpasses through a concession agreement. The project will cost about 11 million rubles. It is possible to start building the first overpass before the end of this year. The Governor asked the President to instruct the Government to allocate 900 million rubles for a capital grant – co-financing of capital expenses. The President suggested presenting the relevant documents.
See also
All news about the trip to Amur Region
April 12, 2022
Geography
Amur Region
Topics
Agriculture
Healthcare
Priority development areas
Regions
1 more
Persons
Orlov Vasily
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2022, 19:10
Text versionEvents
Ceremony for presenting state decorations
While on a visit to Vostochny Cosmodrome, Vladimir Putin presented state decorations to three employees of the Yury Gagarin Research and Test Cosmonaut Training Centre.
April 12, 2022
12:20
Amur Region
1 of 5
Presenting state decorations. Photo: RIA Novosti
Sergei Prokopyev, a cosmonaut and test pilot from the Yury Gagarin Research and Test Cosmonaut Training Centre, received the title of Hero of Russia and an honorary badge Pilot-Cosmonaut of Russia. Instructor and cosmonaut and test pilot Alexander Skvortsov and the Centre’s lead specialist Oleg Skripochka were awarded the Order for Services to the Fatherland, III degree.
President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
also attended the ceremony.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends, Mr Lukashenko.
More than 60 years ago, on April 12, 1961, Soviet officer Yury Gagarin performed the first space flight in history. We are marking Cosmonautics Day to commemorate his feat and this landmark achievement.
Each of us is experiencing special feelings today, including genuine pride for the generations that accomplished a grandiose technological breakthrough, and faith in the future, in our might and progressive development and confidence that we will certainly achieve all our goals. I am confident that this will be so.
I warmly congratulate all our citizens, the citizens of Russia and the citizens of Belarus, all our compatriots, cosmonauts and the staff of Vostochny Cosmodrome, active and retired workers of the rocket and space sector.
I would like to separately address and say a few warm words to service personnel of the Russian Aerospace Forces.
Space, air force, space force are closely interlinked. We know that our officers are currently involved in the special military operation in Donbass, Ukraine, and that they are assisting the people’s republics of Donbass. They are acting bravely, skilfully, effectively and with good results, as they use the most advanced types of weapons with unique and unprecedented specifications.
The discoveries and inventions of humankind’s greatest thinkers, our compatriots Tsiolkovsky, Korolev, Glushko, Chelomei and other outstanding Russian scientists and designers, the unparalleled work of teams from all over the Soviet Union, our engineers and workers are the main foundation of our achievements in addressing defensive tasks and developing civilian space technologies.
They worked for the country in the full sense of the word, they fought for their Fatherland at plants, factories and design bureaux, and they won the toughest race for leadership in outer space. They developed the first artificial space satellite, the first manned spacecraft and the first space station, and they also launched automatic probes to study the Moon and Mars.
It was a domestically built spacecraft that made the first ever landing on the incandescent surface of Venus. No other nation in the world has been able to develop such a technological solution to this day, or for that matter many other rocket and space technologies.
The generation of national rocket and space programme creators has left us not only immense technological achievements but also values that we look up to, even today, and examples of comradeship, audacity – in the finest sense of the word – willpower and courage, which unite and inspire us to this day. Our ancestors’ message to us is their urge to move forward, despite all challenges or outside attempts to hamper our advance.
We will certainly implement – consistently and in a persistent manner – all the plans we have mapped out. We will continue developing a new-generation transport spacecraft and space nuclear energy technologies, where undoubtedly, we have made a very good headstart and possess absolutely obvious advantages. We will resume the moon-exploration programme: I am referring to the [planned] launch of an autonomous craft, the Luna 25 robotised space system, from Vostochny Cosmodrome.
I would like to stress that we must successfully respond to space exploration challenges so as to be able to more effectively pursue national development goals here, on planet Earth, strengthen our security and technological sovereignty, and create advanced R&D in robotics, microelectronics, the environment, medicine, new energy, as well as navigation and communications.
For example, it is necessary to tap the potential of space information technologies at a new level to ensure further introduction of digital services into all sectors of the economy, state administration, education, healthcare, and everyday life. For this purpose, we intend to expand considerably the quantitative and qualitative potential of Russia’s satellite fleet under the Sfera programme.
As for Earth remote sensing, we have started a major project to manufacture and launch specialised spacecraft. To do this, we have pooled the scientific and industrial potential of Russia and the leading Belarusian companies, which have been renowned since Soviet times for their skills in producing precision equipment and the most complex optoelectronic and radio engineering systems.
Jointly creating an infrastructure that can guarantee the Union State independent access to space will be yet another important, signature dimension of our collaboration.
Very soon, Belarusian workers and specialists, companies and enterprises, will be able to contribute to developing the city of Tsiolkovsky and Vostochny Cosmodrome. The State Duma has already approved legislative amendments to this effect, and once the Federation Council reviews them, which will also happen quite soon, I will immediately sign them into law.
There is another decision I wanted to mention specifically. I am asking Roscosmos to arrange the necessary training and organise a flight of a Belarusian national into space on a Russian spacecraft. We discussed this with Mr Lukashenko a long time ago. I am certain that this will be yet another major milestone in our cooperation in space exploration.
Friends,
It would not be an exaggeration to say that being a cosmonaut is a heroic profession, since every spaceflight is always about accomplishing a feat, of being a pioneer, penetrating the unknown and reaching the limits of human capabilities, while performing the most challenging research and engineering tasks. Of course, people who demonstrate personal courage, strong spirit, boldness, a high level of competence and successfully deliver on a mission that matters so much for our country deserve the highest decorations.
It is a pleasure for me to present these decorations to our cosmonauts, especially since we have been waiting for so long to hold this ceremony.
Sergei Prokopyev is hereby awarded the Hero of the Russian Federation title and the honorary title Pilot-Cosmonaut of the Russian Federation. During his first space expedition, he carried out two spacewalks, including an extremely challenging inspection of the spacecraft’s outer covering, writing a page into the history of world cosmonautics. As far as I know, there were no proper fastening devices. How this was done is of course a separate story.
Alexander Skvortsov and Oleg Skripochka carried out three long orbital missions each. Through the honest and responsible service to their Motherland they made a substantial contribution to developing manned spaceflight programmes and Russia’s role in them, enhanced our country’s standing. For that, they receive the Order for Services to the Fatherland, III degree.
Once again, I would like to offer you my greetings on this holiday, friends, and congratulate our cosmonauts on receiving these high decorations.
Let us move on with the ceremony.
Sergei Prokopyev: Mr President, colleagues, employees of Vostochny Cosmodrome,
Thank you for the high praise not only of my work but also of the work done by hundreds of teams and thousands of people involved in manned space flights. I dedicate this decoration to my family, my wife, my friends and my mentors.
I want to say that our people have always been proud of Soviet and Russian achievements in space exploration. Cosmonauts always seek to rise to the standard of our ancestors and predecessors. We want our people and our country to continue being proud of the Russian space industry.
I want to thank the Cosmonaut Training Centre that employs unique specialists, the Mission Control Centre, the Centre for Operation of Space Ground-Based Infrastructure, all designers and engineers involved in creating space equipment, and all those who have always held the banner of Russian space exploration at the highest world level.
In conclusion, I want to say that I am proud to spearhead the Russian Federation’s programme of manned space flights and am ready to devote all my energy to this endeavour.
Happy holiday to everyone!
I serve Russia!
Alexander Skvortsov: Good afternoon, friends,
I also want to wish everyone a happy holiday and express gratitude for this assessment of our work. I fully support what Sergei Prokopyev has said.
But I want to perform an honorary mission. Before a space mission, each crew is allowedto take along something precious and valuable for it. My crew took the Victory Banner.
Today is Cosmonautics Day, and quite soon we will mark Victory Day. This banner was with us in space for six months, and we brought it back to Earth. We celebrated Victory Day with this banner, paying tribute to our great-grandfathers, grandfathers and fathers who fought against Nazi invaders and Nazism. There is a stamp on this banner, which confirms that it has really been in space at the International Space Station. There is also a photograph to this effect.
Allow me to ask your permission, Mr President, to attend to the wish of my superiors, Roscosmos, the cosmonaut team, and all those involved in space activities, and ask you to hand this banner to the commander of the ongoing special military operation and wish all those participating in it at this moment that the word “victory” would be said as often as possible as they perform their missions.
Let me take it with me now, Mr President, and I will hand it over after the awards ceremony.
Thank you.
See also
All news about the trip to Amur Region
April 12, 2022
Geography
Amur Region
Topics
Regions
Space
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2022, 12:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Roscosmos General Director Dmitry Rogozin
Completing his trip to the Amur Region, Vladimir Putin met with General Director of the Roscosmos State Corporation for Space Activities.
April 12, 2022
19:40
Blagoveshchensk
With General Director of Roscosmos State Corporation Dmitry Rogozin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rogozin, we have been discussing the development of the industry all day. Let us continue.
Roscosmos General Director Dmitry Rogozin
: My pleasure, Mr President.
If I may, I would like first to report on some points related to the sanctions: what we think about their influence on our industry; to what extent we are ready to accept them, and what the main results of our import substitution programmes are.
In principle, we understood that these sanctions would be imposed in one way or another. It must be said that some time ago the United States adopted an act that was simply kept under moratorium. According to this act, starting January 1, 2023, any space vehicle with any US-made component or microchip cannot be launched into space on a Russian carrier rocket or from a Russian cosmodrome, even if our rocket takes off from another space port, notably in French Guyana. So, these were deferred sanctions, as it were.
Moreover, a year ago the United States announced sanctions against some strictly civilian organisations. Take our leading flagship institute – the Central Engineering Research Institute (TsNIIMash) established by Sergei Korolev. It includes the Flight Control Centre. Paradoxically, this is Houston’s counterpart in ensuring the safety of the International Space Station, but it too was subjected to sanctions. This was a year ago.
Sanctions against the Progress Rocket Space Centre were introduced in a similar way. It is our leading producer of Soyuz-2 rockets that you saw today in the assembly and testing facility.
Vladimir Putin: These are simply attempts to hold back our development.
Dmitry Rogozin: Absolutely. There was no other logic.
So, the new sanctions by the European Union and the Canadian Space Agency looked identical, carbon copies, and not even related to our military organisations, the ones that are part of Roscosmos and engage in creating intercontinental ballistic missile systems. The sanctions do not apply there, and these combat missile systems do not need visas, as you know. But for civil organisations these sanctions were identical.
We decided – I reported on this to you – to respond to these sanctions primarily in two areas rather than sit on our hands. First, to stop the delivery of our rocket engines, maintenance of the RD-180 engine that launches the US Atlas V rocket, and the RD-181 engine that launches the first stage of the Antares rocket and the US cargo ship Cygnus.
In addition, we have suspended OneWeb launches. After the British government became a shareholder and after the statements that the British government had made about Russia and the moves by their leaders, we turned to OneWeb with a proposal that the British government leave the ranks of the shareholders and, second, that they give us guarantees that this group would not be used to support the armed forces of Ukraine.
Of course, we knew how things really were, but we wanted to obtain at least some guarantees from our customer, and we provided regular services with regard to commissioning multiple spacecraft. When this failed to materialise, I decided to take the rocket off the launch pad. On March 5, the launch from Baikonur was canceled, and we severed our relations with that company, which, I believe, will lead them to bankruptcy, because the Europeans and the British do not actually have booster rockets that can maintain the launch campaign.
With regard to the sanctions and their impact on our industry, you saw the Vostochny Cosmodrome today. It is doing well despite the sanctions. We had only one weak spot, the so-called compressed gas cylinders, which we used to buy from South Korea. However, I am here to report that the Nizhny Novgorod Region, the governor and I are in communication, launched the production of these cylinders, so we have replaced the imports here in full. This is what concerns the spaceport. Everything else is just fine.
Booster rockets. In 2019, we replaced the Ukrainian-made control system on the Soyuz-2 rocket, which was called Soyuz-FG. Since then, we have been using our carriers that do not have any imported parts. The control system, the engines, fuel tanks, oxidizer tanks and the entire hull are manufactured in the Russian Federation.
Moreover, when creating the Soyuz-5 rocket at the Progress Rocket Centre in Samara, we purchased new welding machines and converted from argon-arc welding to friction welding. We located a company that manufactures this equipment in Russia. The company Sespel in Chuvashia presented high-quality equipment, which is already being installed in the Samara Rocket Centre’s workshops.
I reported to you about the engines already. We export them, so there is no question about dependence whatsoever. They are dependent on us, not the other way round.
We have a problem that we are well aware of, we have had it since the sanctions for Crimea were imposed in 2014. It is about supplies of special-purpose radiation-resistant microelectronics, which are used in 95 percent of spacecraft.
Mr President, we are on top of this. We have accomplished a lot lately. We created a holding company for space instrumentation engineering and design centres. We work on the so-called foundry principle where we order a ready-made microchip. Just before the sanctions, we bought the privately-owned Yaroslavl Radio Plant, and now we have a mass production company that supplies us with space instruments.
We have resolved two issues, which I reported to you about in Sochi and in Moscow, the high-speed radio link and traveling wave tubes. Indeed, there are, unfortunately, delays and we agree with the criticism, but there will be no disruptions. We will spend some time reviewing circuit design solutions with the general designer and we will then own it, and it will stay in the country.
So, Mr President, there is no reason to worry about the rocket and space industry. There are many challenges, but we do not have to deal with the problems that, unfortunately, our colleagues have. We will continue to work as we did before, and we will ensure all federal launches this year. We will continue to commission spacecraft next year as well. Just last week we completed the work that we committed to with regard to spacecraft for the Defence Ministry. So, I think we are up to the challenge.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Let us talk about the industry.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to Amur Region
April 12, 2022
Geography
Amur Region
Topics
Regions
Space
Persons
Rogozin Dmitry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 12, 2022, 19:40
Text version