Events
Expanded meeting of Emergencies Ministry Board
Vladimir Putin took part in an expanded Board meeting of the Ministry of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief. The meeting took place via videoconference.
February 16, 2022
18:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
Expanded meeting of Emergencies Ministry Board (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades, good afternoon.
We have always paid serious attention to the activities of the Ministry of Emergencies and will continue to do so. Today, at the annual expanded meeting of the Ministry Board, we will discuss your performance in 2021 and outline priority tasks for the future.
Let me note that over the last three decades the Ministry has proven in practice that it is an essential and highly needed link in Russia’s security system. It has become a flawless, mobile, and well-equipped organisation responsible for protecting our citizens in emergencies, as well as preventing and extinguishing fires and developing the civil defence system.
Last year was difficult for the ministry. Floods in Siberia, in the Far East and in the south of Russia were an important test for rescue crews. They fought natural and man-made fires that threatened people and property.
A major effort was carried out in response to the Listvyazhnaya Mine accident. This tragedy, which unfortunately killed several people – miners and rescuers – was the pain and misfortune of Kuzbass and the rest of Russia.
And, of course, our people are grateful for the substantive aid you have provided in countering the coronavirus. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the ministry’s experts have disinfected more than 40,000 social institutions and decontaminated over 46,000 transport infrastructure facilities, along with almost 12,000 kilometres of roads.
You also fulfilled an important mission abroad during these difficult months. During the general lockdown when the borders were closed, Emergency Ministry planes helped evacuate Russians who were abroad on business trips or holidays. Over 1,400 tonnes of medical equipment and medicines, 120 tonnes of food and over 380,000 doses of Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines were delivered to the countries that suffered most from the coronavirus.
I would like to thank the managers, the military personnel, the employees and civilian specialists at the Emergencies Ministry for their dutiful work and their courage and selflessness in performing their duties, for their readiness to immediately help others, often at the risk of their own lives.
Colleagues,
To be clear, the demands on your work are always the toughest. Today, Emergencies Ministry forces and equipment, and your territorial units must respond more efficiently to all possible emergencies. To do so, operational, analytical and personnel capabilities must be built up and the ministry must be provided with the latest equipment. This must be done in a systemic and consistent way, in full conformity with existing plans.
I will note that that last year a programme was approved for the first time to re-equip the Emergencies Ministry with modern types and models of firefighting and aviation equipment. This has been on the agenda for a long time. Significant funding amounting to almost 190 billion rubles is being allocated for the programme until 2030.
It is especially important to upgrade firefighting and rescue units, to increase their mobility and readiness to immediately respond to natural and industrial threats. As such, I think it is necessary to focus on resolving the following priority tasks.
First, we need to supply the Emergencies Ministry with modern vehicles and equipment. By 2030 new rescue equipment must make up at least 81 percent and fire engines at least 56 percent.
In view of the history of cooperation with the largest manufacturers of this equipment, primarily KamAZ and Ural, the issue of signing long-term contracts must be considered while ensuring transparent pricing, cutting delivery time and streamlining servicing by signing “life-cycle” contracts.
Special care should be taken to improve the gear and equipment for firefighters and rescuers, reflecting the local climate and other peculiarities, which are different in different regions due to the huge size of the country.
In addition, training equipment for Emergencies Ministry personnel must be improved, primarily for mine-rescuers.
With this in mind, I will note that this year, which marks the centenary of the mine rescue service in Russia, the core facilities of the National Airmobile Rescue Training Centre for mine-rescuers and miners must begin operating. It is a crucial task, so please note that up-to-date training that meets all standards is utterly important for operating with efficiency in case of an emergency.
Now, about the second aspect – organisation. The ministry’s efficiency gains will largely come from eliminating duplicate structures, mainly in management and supply divisions. The resources freed up should be diverted to operational rescue and fire services and units, and also to increase the number of inspectors in supervising bodies.
Third. Preventing man-made fires remains a priority. They are a grave threat to people’s health and lives and are associated with large economic losses.
Yes, the state is consistently removing the inspection burden on businesses, and this is the right thing to do, especially for small and medium-sized businesses. The Emergencies Ministry was among the first to assume a risk-based approach to inspection activities. However, it does not mean that if companies are not inspected in the old way, they can ignore established rules and standards, much less blatantly violate them. Responsibility for fire safety and people’s health has to be of the utmost importance.
I must add that the Emergencies Ministry has to get more involved with public volunteer associations and volunteers while addressing these issues. This concerns not only firefighting or emergency relief operations but also prevention work including teaching citizens safe habits.
Volunteer firefighting teams and units and other associations are a great help in your work, and so we need to consider the issue of transferring retired but otherwise fully functioning equipment of the Emergencies Ministry to volunteer firefighting units. I want to stress: not faulty, retired but fully functioning, otherwise it makes no sense. Salvage and unwanted equipment cannot be just dumped on people who will not be able to use it. Instead, it would only be a hazard.
Fourth – the development of the emergencies and rescue infrastructure in the Arctic region. Significant federal funding is to be allocated to address this task. For example, providing the Emergencies Ministry with latest Arctic-type helicopters will cost over 18 billion rubles.
In 2021, the formation of a rescue centre in Pevek, Chukotka Autonomous Area began; it was scheduled to begin and is reported to have already begun. However, note that this work requires more interaction with large companies that have hydrocarbon extraction and processing facilities in the Arctic such as Novatek and Rosneft. All that will allow for more efficient use of budget funds.
And, finally, fifth. The ongoing work on increasing the efficiency of the civil defence system must be continued.
The state, for its part, will continue to further enhance social guarantees for those employed by the Ministry. Over a thousand of the Ministry’s employees have been provided with housing in the past three years. Allowances for service personnel and employee wages were duly adjusted. I know that some problems remain here, but this work will continue, obviously.
I am confident that Emergencies Ministry personnel will act professionally and decisively to address the issues raised today and other challenges facing the Ministry.
I wish you success in your work for the good of Russia and our citizens.
Thank you.
<…>
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 16, 2022, 18:50
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Brazilian talks
Following Russian-Brazilian talks, Vladimir Putin and President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro made statements for the press.
February 16, 2022
17:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
With President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro during press statements following Russian-Brazilian talks.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, colleagues,
I would like to begin by thanking the President of the Federative Republic of Brazil, Mr Jair Bolsonaro for accepting my invitation to come to Russia on an official visit. This is the President’s first visit to Russia.
Let me note that relations between Russia and Brazil have traditionally been based on friendship and understanding. The strategic partnership between the two countries includes many diverse areas. Together, we want to develop political, economic and cultural ties, and cooperate closely on the global stage, at the UN, in BRICS, and in the G20, among others.
See also
Talks with President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro
February 16, 2022
And today we have had quite substantive and constructive talks. Following the talks, we adopted a joint statement that sets the guidelines for the further development of Russian-Brazilian cooperation.
Our countries are definitely interested in progressively expanding economic interaction. Brazil is one of Russia’s leading trade partners in Latin America and the Caribbean, accounting for one third of all our trade with this region.
Last year, bilateral trade grew by 87 percent despite coronavirus-related complications. The intergovernmental commission plays an important role in strengthening bilateral trade and investment ties. The latest session was held in autumn of last year in Brasilia. At that time, under personal instructions from President Bolsonaro, key Brazilian government ministers in the economic sector, responsible for energy, the mining industry and agriculture, visited Russia.
In addition, we plan to soon hold a meeting of the High-Level Russian-Brazilian Commission co-chaired by the Russian Prime Minister and the Brazilian Vice President.
The Russian-Brazilian and Brazilian-Russian Councils of Entrepreneurs are working well together; they have timed a series of meetings of business representatives to the current visit by the President of Brazil, and tonight Mr Bolsonaro will speak with the business leaders on these councils.
Let me emphasise that Brazil is always widely represented at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. Last year, Mr Bolsonaro greeted the participants of the SPIEF plenary session via videoconference, which we highly appreciated. Once again, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your attention to our event in St Petersburg.
We expect that this year’s 25th forum, scheduled for June 15–18, will be attended by a high-profile delegation of Brazilian politicians, business leaders and public activists.
We note with satisfaction that our bilateral industrial cooperation is successfully expanding. And I would like to highlight the projects involving the Russian corporation Power Machines to modernise the Brazilian hydropower industry, as well as the Severstal and AVISMA projects to supply components for Brazilian high-tech industries.
Russia’s Rosatom exports fuel for Brazilian nuclear power plants and radioisotopes for medical purposes. Rosatom is also interested in participating in the construction of new power units in Brazil, including low-capacity nuclear power plants, both land and floating plants, because it has unique and extensive experience, and technologies that are not available elsewhere in the world.
Cooperation in the chemical industry and the production of environmentally friendly mineral fertiliser is progressing at a good pace. In 2021, Russian companies supplied almost 10 million tonnes of fertilisers worth about $3.5 billion to the Brazilian market.
Roscosmos and the Brazilian Space Agency are working on the implementation of the agreement on cooperation on the BRICS Remote Sensing Satellite Constellation. Three GLONASS stations have already been built in Brazil, as well as an electronic optical orbital debris spotter, and there are agreements to deploy two additional stations.
Russian-Brazilian cooperation in medicine and pharmaceuticals has been gaining momentum of late. Our companies ChemRar and BIOCAD are active in promoting coronavirus and cancer drugs in the Brazilian market. A project to localise Sputnik V vaccine manufacturing in Brazil is being implemented with support from the Russian Direct Investment Fund.
During our talks with President Bolsonaro, we naturally discussed the issues of cultural interaction. We agreed to continue promoting bilateral education, cultural and sports exchanges.
For example, a range of initiatives are being worked out now for Russia to participate in the celebrations of the bicentenary of Brazil’s independence later this year.
I will also mention that Russia provides assistance to Brazil in personnel training. We have about 400 Brazilian students in Russia, about 80 of whom are studying tuition-free.
A Russian-Brazilian inter-cultural school has recently been opened in Rio de Janeiro where classes are taught in Russian and Portuguese. You may also recall that a Bolshoi Theatre school has been operating for over 20 years in the Brazilian city of Joinville. Over 250 young people from different areas of Brazil and other Latin American countries train at this unique school, the only one of its kind outside Russia.
While sharing opinions on regional and global issues, the parties stated that Russia’s and Brazil’s positions on many issues are close or overlap. The foreign and defence ministries maintain contact. Actually, the foreign and defence ministers of the two countries had their first ever meeting in the 2+2 format in Moscow this morning.
Our countries advocate the development of a multipolar world order based on international law with the central coordinating role of the UN. Given that, we are firmly committed to the principle of multilateralism and the political-diplomatic settlement of conflicts.
In view of Brazil’s status as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2022–2023, we are set to pursue our interaction more intensively across all current issues on the UN agenda.
And we will, of course, continue to cooperate with our Brazilin partners within BRICS – a respected international association that holds an important place in the contemporary multipolar world and plays an important role in the global economy.
To conclude, I would like to thank Mr Bolsonaro for our meeting. I believe that today’s talks will serve to further strengthen Russian-Brazilian relations to the benefit of our two peoples.
And finally, Mr President, I know of yesterday’s disaster in Brazil: heavy rains caused destruction and claimed lives. I want to express my condolences to you and to all the people of Brazil over this tragedy and to wish a speedy recovery to the injured.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro
(retranslated): Mr President,
We talked for almost two hours; the agenda was extensive and of great interest to both our countries. I am grateful to you for your condolences. People in Petropolis and Rio de Janeiro were affected by this natural disaster. Thank you.
Mr President, we share common values: faith in God and protecting family values. We stand in solidarity with all countries that seek and do all they can to achieve peace.
We work together closely at such international venues as BRICS, the G20 and the UNO where we defend the sovereign right of nations to self-determination in line with the UN Charter and international law.
We noted the return of bilateral trade to pre-pandemic levels. Brazil is a major player in agriculture and we are pleased to see that there is interest in fertiliser supplies. We also see interested in supplies of animal-based products.
We have vast potential for developing cooperation in the sphere of oil, petroleum products and natural gas. We are striving to strengthen our high-level dialogue on oil exploration and production in deep-water deposits. We are interested in small nuclear power plants.
We are pleased to note the holding of the first military-political consultations between our foreign and defence ministers.
We are very happy that the Amazon is part of humanity’s heritage and we are grateful to you for your words in defence of our sovereignty. Thank you very much.
President Putin and I consider very important the efforts to create new dynamics in the technological alliance between Brazil and Russia. We are paying significant attention to nanotechnology, biotechnology, IT and medical research.
Brazil and Russia have the world’s biggest forests and we decided to establish a dialogue on forest protection.
Our meeting that lasted for almost two hours, I repeat, was very productive. It shows that two big powers have enormous potential for progress for the benefit of our nations.
Let me repeat that the world is our home and God is above us. We stand for peace and are ready to support all those who do the same. We support all.
Mr Putin, thank you very much for the warm welcome, the issues we discussed at today’s meeting and the trust placed in our country.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Brazil
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Bolsonaro Jair
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 16, 2022, 17:10
Text versionEvents
Talks with President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro
Vladimir Putin held talks in the Kremlin with President of the Federative Republic of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro, who is in Russia on an official visit. 
February 16, 2022
16:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 7
Talks with President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro.
The agenda included various aspects of strengthening the Russian-Brazilian strategic partnership, expanding cooperation in trade, the economy, science, technology, culture and humanitarian sphere. The leaders also exchanged opinions on key international issues.
Following international consultations, the presidents of the two countries made statements for the press.
In addition, a Joint Statement was adopted.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President,
See also
Joint Statement by President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin and President of the Federative Republic of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro
February 16, 2022
It is a pleasure to see you. Good afternoon.
This is your first visit to our country. I hope it will be successful and pleasant.
We are restoring relations interrupted, in one way or another, by the Covid-19 pandemic. On your instructions, the leading ministers of your Government have visited Moscow, and today, our defence and foreign ministers are meeting in the 2+2 format.
We are working pro-actively at international venues as well. And, despite all the restrictions, our trade has grown by 87 percent.
Additional
Press statements following Russian-Brazilian talks
February 16, 2022
I am happy to see you, Mr President, and I hope that this meeting will be useful, the more so that Brazil is a leading – and one can even say the leading – trade and economic partner of Russia in Latin America. This is of great importance.
Welcome, Mr President.
President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro
(retranslated): It is a great pleasure, your invitation is a great honour for me.
We feel a sense of solidarity with Russia. We have good prospects for cooperation in various areas, specifically defence, oil and gas, and agriculture. Our government ministers are also holding meetings.
I am confident that my visit to Moscow is a signal to the whole world that our bilateral relations have good prospects for growth.
I would like to thank you for pardoning a Brazilian national last year.
We are ready for cooperation, and I would like to express confidence that this visit and our meeting will be quite productive.
<…>
Geography
Brazil
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Bolsonaro Jair
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 16, 2022, 16:50
Text version