Events
Greetings to participants in Winter Paralympics titled We Are Together. Sport
Vladimir Putin made a video address for the participants in the open Russian sports competition, Winter Paralympic Games, We Are Together. Sport.
March 18, 2022
17:30
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Greetings to everyone at the open Russian Winter Paralympic Games.
You have gathered in the wonderful city of Khanty-Mansiysk, where people love sports, are proud of their sports traditions and, with great enthusiasm, supported the decision to hold these competitions for you, the best Paralympic athletes on the planet.
I am sure that you will fully feel the hospitality of Khanty-Mansiysk residents and, of course, the kindest emotions of fans, who will warmly support you and your brilliant performances.
There is no doubt that all this will give you a powerful boost of energy and help you achieve the best results and impressive world records, and win an honest and uncompromising fight, where the fundamental values of sport, free of politics and discrimination, will dominate.
Unfortunately, in recent years, a lot of major international competitions have been marked by events that are incompatible with sports, its spirit and atmosphere. We have repeatedly witnessed dubious and biased judging, slander, aggressive acts and outright provocations; we have seen how the ideas of Pierre de Coubertin are methodically falsified and distorted, and the once sacred principles of sports become blurred.
Right before our eyes, equality turned into perverted tolerance, justice became double standards, and the fight for clean sport became a politically biased dictatorship of the anti-doping bureaucracy.
The Olympic movement took a heavy blow with so-called shared responsibility, which was first launched by international sports officials at the Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro in 2016.
All this leads not only to the loss of authority and independence of organisations that are important for the development of world sports, but also to the violation of the Olympic Charter, including the key thesis that the Games are a competition between athletes, not between states.
The height of cynicism was the suspension of Russian and Belarusian athletes from the Paralympics in Beijing. It was not just innocent athletes but Paralympic athletes who suffered – people who were not discouraged but overcame the most difficult trials in life, people who are worthy of all possible support and admiration, those who, by their example, give hope to millions, making people believe in themselves and in their strength.
Russia, which has always adhered to the ideals of sports and Olympism, will not put up with the deprivation of athletes or their mentors on their biggest day. They have been preparing for this for a long time. And we decided to hold our own competition, open to Paralympic athletes from around the world, to recognised leaders and debutants, to everyone who truly cares about sport and its values.
I know that here in Khanty-Mansiysk you will prove that you are the best, strongest, most courageous and talented athletes. We are proud of you!
I wish you all great success and, of course, exceptional victories!
Topics
Sport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 18, 2022, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Concert marking the anniversary of Crimea’s reunification with Russia
Vladimir Putin attended a concert marking eight years since Crimea’s reunification with the Russia, at the Luzhniki Sports Centre in Moscow.
March 18, 2022
16:15
Moscow
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: “We, the multi-ethnic nation of the Russian Federation, united by common fate on our land…” These are the first words of our fundamental law, the Russian Constitution. Each word has deep meaning and enormous significance.
On our land, united by common fate. This is what the people of Crimea and Sevastopol must have been thinking as they went to the referendum on March 18, 2014. They lived and continue to live on their land, and they wanted to have a common fate with their historical motherland, Russia. They had every right to it and they achieved their goal. Let’s congratulate them first because it is their holiday. Happy anniversary!
Over these years, Russia has done a great deal to help Crimea and Sevastopol grow. There were things that needed to be done that were not immediately obvious to the unaided eye. These were essential things such as gas and power supply, utility infrastructure, restoring the road network, and construction of new roads, motorways and bridges.
We needed to drag Crimea out of that humiliating position and state that Crimea and Sevastopol had been pushed into when they were part of another state that had only provided leftover financing to these territories.
There is more to it. The fact is we know what needs to be done next, how it needs to be done, and at what cost – and we will fulfil all these plans, absolutely.
These decisions are not even as important as the fact that the residents of Crimea and Sevastopol made the right choice when they put up a firm barrier against neo-Nazis and ultra-nationalists. What was and is still happening on other territories is the best indication that they did the right thing.
People who lived and live in Donbass did not agree with this coup d’état, either. Several punitive military operations were instantly staged against them; they were besieged and subjected to systemic shelling with artillery and bombing by aircraft – and this is actually what is called “genocide.”
The main goal and motive of the military operation that we launched in Donbass and Ukraine is to relieve these people of suffering, of this genocide. At this point, I recall the words from the Holy Scripture: “Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.” And we are seeing how heroically our military are fighting during this operation.
These words come from the Holy Scripture of Christianity, from what is cherished by those who profess this religion. But the bottom line is that this is a universal value for all nations and those of all religions in Russia, and primarily for our people. The best evidence of this is how our fellows are fighting and acting in this operation: shoulder to shoulder, helping and supporting each other. If they have to, they will cover each other with their bodies to protect their comrade from a bullet in the battlefield, as they would to save their brother. It has been a long time since we had such unity.
It so happened that, by sheer coincidence, the start of the operation was same day as the birthday of one of our outstanding military leaders who was canonised – Fedor Ushakov. He did not lose a single battle throughout his brilliant career. He once said that these thunderstorms would glorify Russia. This is how it was in his time; this is how it is today and will always be!
Thank you!
Geography
Sevastopol
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 18, 2022, 16:15
Text version