Events
Russian-Chinese talks
Vladimir Putin held talks in Beijing with President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping.
February 4, 2022
13:15
Beijing
1 of 4
With President of China Xi Jinping prior to the Russian-Chinese talks.
The talks focused on the bilateral agenda and trade and economic cooperation. The President of China mentioned the intention to increase bilateral trade to US$250 billion. The President of Russia spoke about promoting the use of national currencies in mutual settlements, which the Chinese side supported. They also discussed bilateral military-technical cooperation, mutual recognition of coronavirus vaccines and the opening of borders depending on the epidemiological situation.
During the working lunch, the two leaders discussed the international situation and regional issues, in particular, the circumstances surrounding the security guarantees proposed by the Russian Federation. Xi Jinping thanked Vladimir Putin for his wholehearted support of the One China principle.
A joint Russia-China statement and a package of documents have been adopted within the framework of the visit.
They include an intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in anti-monopoly legislation and competitive policy and several other interdepartmental documents, such as the agreement on cooperation in ensuring compatibility and interoperability of GLONASS and BeiDou navigation satellite systems in terms of the system time scales; a joint statement on the completion of a roadmap for high-quality development of Russian-Chinese trade in goods and services; and a plan of consultations between the foreign ministries of Russia and China in 2022. In addition to that, the sides have signed a memorandum of understanding between the Russian Economic Development Ministry and the Chinese Ministry of Commerce to promote investment cooperation in sustainable (green) development, and a joint statement between the relevant ministries on holding the Russian and Chinese years of cooperation in physical education and sports in 2022–2023.
The commercial contracts signed are related to the purchase and sale of natural gas via the Far Eastern route, and the purchase and sale of crude oil for delivery to oil refineries in Western China. Other documents signed include a memorandum of understanding on cooperation in the field of low carbon development between Rosneft and China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), and an agreement on cooperation in the field of information development and digitalisation between Rosneft and Huawei Technologies for the period to 2027.
* * *
Beginning of Russian-Chinese talks
President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping (retranslated): We regard this as a very good sign in China: the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games, the beginning of the Spring Festival [according to the Lunar calendar], and today’s meeting with you. We are confident that this personal meeting will add more energy and vigour to relations between our countries.
The coronavirus pandemic is spreading around the world extremely quickly. The world has entered a new phase of shocks and changes. Humankind is facing numerous challenges and crises. In this situation, our countries remain committed to their initial goal, working tirelessly to ensure the sustainable development of our relations and to protect their fundamental interests. Our political and strategic trust is growing stronger.
Our mutual trade exceeded US$140 billion last year, thereby reaching a new historic high. Our countries are actively contributing to the reform of the global governance system.
We are working together to promote a truly multilateral world order. Efforts to uphold the real democratic spirit are a reliable foundation for rallying the world towards overcoming crises and protecting equality.
We will keep moving towards this, and we will continue working together with you to map out plans for the further development of Chinese-Russian relations in a new historical period, trying to transform mutual trust between our countries into practical cooperation to the benefit of our peoples.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, my dear friend,
First of all, I would like to thank you for inviting me to the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games. We know from our own experience that it takes hard work. I am sure that our Chinese friends have organised everything brilliantly, just as always when it comes to major events.
Additional
All news about the working visit to China
February 4, 2022
Attending the Olympics opening ceremonies has become a tradition. We attended the opening ceremony of the 2008 Summer Olympics held in China, and you attended the opening ceremony of the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi. Just as agreed, we have now come to Beijing for the opening of the Winter Olympic Games.
I am confident that our athletes, both Chinese and Russian athletes, will perform befittingly. The whole world will be watching the sports developments.
Regarding our bilateral relations, they are, indeed, developing steadily in the spirit of friendship and strategic partnership. They have acquired a truly unprecedented nature and are an example of worthy relations that help both parties to develop and, at the same time, support each other in their development.
As you have already noted, our bilateral trade has reached US$140 billion. We are moving steadily towards our goal, namely, reaching US$200 billion in mutual trade. I am confident that we will certainly attain this level.
Unfortunately, it has been impossible to hold offline meetings over the past two years. Nevertheless, you and I have always been in touch, we have attended videoconferences and spoken with each other by telephone. But, most importantly, we supported the efforts of our teams in virtually all spheres. I am talking about foreign ministries and joint work at international venues. This concerns the most diverse economic aspects, including high-tech and the “green” agenda during the conversion to new power sources.
Nor do we forget about traditional areas. In the run-up to our current meeting, our oil workers have drafted good new solutions regarding hydrocarbon deliveries to the People’s Republic of China. We have made another step forwards in the gas sector. I am referring to the new contract to deliver ten billion cubic metres of gas from Russia’s Far East to China every year. I repeat, we are making headway in high-tech fields.
The agenda is quite packed. Of course, we are taking advantage of the Russian delegation’s current visit. Despite the pandemic-related restrictions, the Russian delegation looks quite large. We will work actively on all aspects. Although we know from our own experience how busy you and your colleagues will be during the Olympic Games opening ceremony, I hope that we will find a few minutes to discuss our bilateral relations.
Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
Joint Statement of the Russian Federation and the People’s Republic of China on the International Relations Entering a New Era and the Global Sustainable Development
February 4, 2022
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 4, 2022, 13:15
Text version