Events
Meeting of State Council Presidium on Tourism Development
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the State Council Presidium where development of the national tourism industry in current conditions was discussed.
September 6, 2022
16:35
Russky Island, Primorye Territory
5 of 16
Meeting of State Council Presidium on Tourism Development. Photo: Valery Sharifulin, TASS Host Photo Agency
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
The topic of our meeting today is the development of the national tourism industry in current conditions.
First of all, of course, we have to think about our people’s interests – we should always think about them and be guided by them. We must do everything necessary to ensure that people with different incomes have access to the broadest opportunities for travel and improving their health so that they can enjoy themselves and improve the quality of their lives; so that our people can visit traditional health resorts, relax by the sea, get to know our capital cities, of course, including Moscow and St Petersburg, and other cultural and historical centres of Russia, with the unique nature of our vast country, including, of course, the nature of the Far East and the Russian North.
The active development of domestic tourism, especially in the current difficult conditions, is now one of the priorities, if not the top priority. Russia has colossal potential here, and each region has its own unique benefits. Therefore, the emphasis should be placed not only on well-known, traditional tourist centres, but also on helping the Russian regions that are still developing and promoting the tourism industry.
See also
All news about the trip to Primorye Territory
September 7, 2022
It is known that this industry promotes economic growth and adds to the budgets of regions and towns with a rich history, as well as the budgets of rural areas. It has an enormous multiplier effect. For example, according to estimates, tourism directly influences the development of more than 50 other related industries, creates jobs and good prospects for small and medium-sized businesses.
This meeting is taking place in the Far Eastern Federal District, where many new tourist routes have opened in recent years. The tourist flow in the Kamchatka Territory (I spoke about this with the Governor yesterday), as well as on Sakhalin and in Buryatia, is on the rise. The demand for cruises in this macro-region is high as usual.
The experience of the Far Eastern Federal District, as well as other successful Russian regions, must be used when developing solutions for advancing the tourism industry.
The main goals here include developing high-quality, modern and affordable tourism products and services, creating high demand for them, and removing administrative barriers that stand in the way of the industry, as well as expanding tourism infrastructure and logistics, creating a proper environment for bringing in investment, and training staff for the domestic and inbound tourism industry.
The Tourism and Hospitality Industry national project is designed to fulfill these major goals, which are to more than double travel across Russia by 2030; build 50 percent more hotel rooms with modern infrastructure; and almost double the number of jobs in this industry.
I will briefly discuss a number of projects that need decisions to be taken at the federal level before they can move forward.
We know that our people love beach holidays, which is understandable, so we need to make better use of the ample opportunities offered by the Black Sea, the Caspian Sea, the Sea of Azov and the Baltic Sea, as well as the Far East’s Primorye Territory, and work through the plans to build major year-round federal resorts with modern and comfortable infrastructure, including swimming pools, that are capable of accommodating up to 10 million guests every year.
It is likewise important to press on with developing tourist and recreational sites in the North Caucasus and to rebuild the Kayakent resort area off the Caspian Sea as a modern holiday spot. It used to be one of the best health resorts in the Soviet Union. Its thermal springs and therapeutic mud are unique, and we can use this natural spot to build a resort that is in no way inferior to the most popular international resorts.
Apart from these major projects, we need to focus on restoring national, regional and local tourism facilities and trails. We need to address this matter comprehensively, and we have to provide these walking routes with the necessary infrastructure, including leisure areas, equipment rental and hospitality centres. I would like to note that this is the most affordable and popular tourism alternative, and we will have to improve about 1,000 trails.
Improving Russia’s tourism status internationally is another key aspect. As you know, our country has left the World Tourism Organisation, a justified move. At the same time, we are convinced that tourism should remain outside politics, and we realise that it plays a strong role in establishing partnerships and mutual understanding between countries and nations.
In this connection, I am asking the Government to study the issue of establishing interstate tourism associations. We have enough partners, and many of them want to work with Russia.
Colleagues, we have many items to discuss today. The other day, you reviewed them in great detail at the traditional seminar ahead of the State Council Presidium meeting, and I know that you found ways to resolve many problems. Today, I would like to ask you to discuss measures for supporting import substitution projects for tourism equipment manufacturing in great detail. The same concerns the transport sector, including buses, boats, all-terrain vehicles and cableways.
Representatives of the sector’s businesses suggest a number of tax incentives for the tourism industry.
Let us discuss all this. We basically began this discussion yesterday: we spoke with the Governor of Kamchatka, and we just talked with the Governor of the Primorye Territory for two and a half hours on our way back from the military exercise area. We had to take a car because the helicopters were grounded. Therefore, everyone, including me, now knows about this subject. Let us get started.
<…>
Topics
Regions
Tourism
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, State Council
Publication date: September 6, 2022, 16:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Eastern Economic Forum moderators
Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with moderators of the key sessions of the Eastern Economic Forum.
September 6, 2022
17:40
Russky Island, Primorye Territory
1 of 5
Meeting with Eastern Economic Forum moderators.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
Greetings to all of you at the Eastern Economic Forum.
This is the seventh forum. I remember that it was started by Mr Trutnev.
I will be honest, I had my doubts: we have the St Petersburg and Sochi economic forums, in other regions. But, considering how important this region is for Russia as a whole, it was decided to proceed with organising it. I have never regretted it, because, indeed, it turned out to be very popular, especially in current conditions, as we can now see.
I will not list everything connected with it right now, as you are aware of it all. And I must say that all the decisions on the development of the Far East that we, together with you, have worked out are in effect. Almost all of them are in effect – I will not list them now, we have the main plenary session tomorrow, where we will talk about this in more detail. But everything that has been offered as some kind of bonus or as some kind of incentive is working and yielding results, which I think you are also aware of. I have been talking about it with my colleagues just now. I repeat, tomorrow we will talk in greater detail.
It is clear that in such a large endeavour we cannot avoid questions that demand heightened attention, and, of course, your support – considering the practical experience that you have with working in this territory, which is certainly strategic for Russia. With your support we will improve the tools that the state has proposed for the development of the Far East.
I know that you moderated various topics during the preliminary work. And, of course, I would like to hear your opinion on what has been done and how. Your views and suggestions on what should be done in the near future are more relevant than ever.
I am pleased to give the floor to our colleague, Mr Trutnev. He will moderate our meeting today.
<…>
See also
All news about the trip to Primorye Territory
September 7, 2022
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 6, 2022, 17:40
Text version