Video address to BRICS Business Forum participants
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Xi Jinping,
Friends,
It is my pleasure to welcome representatives of governments and business communities, experts and industry professionals of the BRICS countries who have gathered at the traditional Business Forum.
The Forum indeed plays a large practical role in promoting mutual trade and investment, strengthening cooperation ties and enhancing direct dialogue between business communities, not only within our Association, but also in a broader, global dimension. After all, the participants in the BRICS Business Forum represent the interests of a significant and the most dynamically developing part of the international economic community.
In this regard, I would like to recall that our countries are home to more than 3 billion people, and together account for about a quarter of the global GDP, 20 per cent of trade and roughly 25 per cent of direct investments, while the total international reserves of the BRICS countries (as of the beginning of 2022) amount to about 35 per cent of world reserves.
Hence the high relevance, in our opinion, of the theme of this Forum – Foster High-quality BRICS Partnership, Usher in a New Era for Global Development. It is also important that the agenda of the Forum is packed with truly crucial issues, such as ensuring sustainable growth of the global economy, preserving its openness, increasing cooperation in the field of digital economy, green growth, industry modernization, and building new transport and logistics chains.
Russia supports the draft Beijing Initiative to be adopted following the Forum, which reaffirms determination of BRICS business circles to continue close joint work in all the areas mentioned.
Entrepreneurs of our countries are forced to develop their business in a challenging environment when the Western partners neglect the basic principles of market economy, free trade, and inviolability of private property. They follow, in fact, an irresponsible macroeconomic course, including the launch of the “printing press” – uncontrolled emission and accumulation of unsecured debts.
At the same time more and more politically motivated sanctions are continuously introduced, mechanisms of exerting pressure on competitors are further strengthened. There is intentional destruction of cooperation ties; transport and logistics chains are destroyed. And all this is contrary to common sense and basic economic logic, it undermines business interests on a global scale, negatively affecting the wellbeing of people, in effect, of all countries.
As a result, the problems in the world economy become recurrent. What we see is an economic slowdown, growing unemployment, shortages in raw materials and components. Problems with ensuring global food security are getting worse; prices for grain crops and other basic agricultural products are being inflated.
It is important that, despite all the problems and difficulties, BRICS business circles have been consistently enhancing mutually beneficial ties in the areas of trade, finance, and investment. For example, in the first three months of this year, trade between the Russian Federation and the BRICS countries increased by 38 per cent – and reached USD 45 billion.
Contacts between Russian business circles and the business community of the BRICS countries have intensified. For example, negotiations are underway to open Indian chain stores in Russia, increase the share of Chinese cars, equipment, and hardware on our market. ­­­ In its turn, Russia’s presence in the BRICS countries is growing.­­ There has been a noticeable increase in the exports of Russian oil to China and India. ­
Agricultural cooperation is developing dynamically. Russia exports considerable amounts of fertilizers to the BRICS states. Russian IT companies are expanding their activities in India and South Africa, and our satellites enable TV broadcasting for as many as 40 million residents of Brazil.­­­