Events
Gala concert devoted to the 1160th anniversary of Russian statehood
Vladimir Putin made a speech at a gala concert marking the 1160th anniversary of Russian statehood.
September 21, 2022
18:00
Veliky Novgorod
2 of 3
Gala concert devoted to the 1160th anniversary of Russian statehood. Photo: RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Today, we are marking the 1160th anniversary of Russian statehood. I would like to congratulate you on this momentous historical date that is of key importance for Russia.
Veliky Novgorod, Rurikovo Settlement, Staraya (Old) Ladoga and Izborsk are the cradle of Rus, the source of our civilisation and our state, our culture and education.
It is from here, from the north, that the guards of the first Russian Rurik dynasty started their campaigns, that merchant caravans travelled – “from Varangians to Greeks,” and that Rus, Europe’s largest state at that time, was created. It united Slavic, Finno-Ugric, Turkic and other tribes. It gathered them under its strengthening wings from Ladoga and Baltic, Novgorod and Pskov to Kiev and Chernigov, Azov, the Black Sea and Crimea.
During more than a millennium, our statehood has lived through many eras, including cruel enemy invasions, disunity and the tragedies of feuds, but each of these difficult periods invariably ended with the revival of the Fatherland. The heroic generations of our people overcame difficulties and adversities, withstood the trials. They created and expanded the grandeur of our Fatherland and covered their names with glory.
We remember and cherish these truly outstanding people: Rurik and Prophetic Oleg, Princess Olga and Svyatoslav Igorevich, Prince Vladimir and Yaroslav the Wise, Vladimir Monomakh and Alexander Nevsky, Dmitry Donskoy and Sergius of Radonezh, Ivan III and Ivan the Terrible, Yermak, Minin and Pozharsky, Dezhnev and Bering, Peter the Great and Catherine the Great, Lomonosov and Pushkin, Suvorov and Ushakov, Alexander II the Liberator and Alexander III the Peacemaker, Brusilov and Denikin, Zhukov and Rokossovsky, Kurchatov, Korolev and Gagarin.
These and many other of our compatriots were larger-than-life, complex and occasionally controversial historical figures. Some of them saw Russia’s future differently and were even on the opposite sides of the barricades. You know, when drafting this text, I scribbled in and crossed out names like Nicholas II, Lenin, Stalin. Apparently, not enough time has passed since then from a historical point of view for us to give comprehensive and objective assessments that are free from the pressure of ongoing political developments.
However, all of them, including statesmen, workers, warriors, pioneers, scholars, ascetics and saints and, most importantly, all our people made Russia a great global power and determined its future.
To reiterate, it all began here, in Veliky Novgorod, and Novgorod's Cathedral of Saint Sophia, just like other ancient Russian cathedrals, will forever remain a sacred symbol of our historical unity. Modern Russia is the heir to Ancient Holy Rus, just as it is the heir to the Tsardom of Muscovy, the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union, which were the great eras of our uninterrupted thousand-year history that we are proud of.
Today, as we peer into the depths of the past centuries, we realise that we must not only preserve, but also carry on with dignity the traditions of our ancestors, that each of us has an enormous responsibility for Russia, for protecting and strengthening our vast country, our beloved Motherland.
For centuries, Russia has been built as a home shared by people of numerous ethnicities and different religions. Our brotherhood packs the powerful energy of harmonious, independent and authentic development.
No one will ever be able to ban or cancel our unique civilisation and rich culture, just as it is impossible to rattle or even less so to destroy the values that make Russian society one and make us one big, united nation.
These values embrace loyalty to truth and justice, respect for the family, love for children, a solid foundation of traditional values such as mercifulness, compassion and mutual assistance, and the desire to make life good not just for yourself but for everyone, for the entire country, for all of Russia and, in the face of a common threat, to stand together as one “for one’s own friends” and for the Fatherland.
Being a patriot is the essence of the nature and character of the Russian people. Our heroes, our soldiers, officers and volunteers are displaying exactly these superior human qualities in the course of the special military operation. They are fighting courageously, shoulder to shoulder, as brothers for the sake of saving the people of Donbass, for the sake of peaceful skies over our children and grandchildren, for a homeland that will always be free and independent.
For 1,160 years now, we have firmly learned that for Russia it is mortally dangerous to relax its sovereignty or renounce its interests even for a limited time. Russia’s very existence has come under threat during these times.
They can no longer expect us to make these mistakes. We will not succumb to blackmail or intimidation, and we will never betray or lose our sovereignty. By strengthening it, we are developing our country.
Sovereignty is the guarantee of freedom for everyone. According to our traditions, nobody can feel truly free if his people, his Fatherland, Russia, the homeland is not free.
Responsible and strong power in our state is serving and will serve only the people of Russia. This support for the key issues on the domestic and foreign agenda can guarantee the successful, safe development of our country as one of the centres of a fairer multipolar world that is now taking shape.
We are on the side of open, honest partnership. This is our firm position and based on this we will build our relations with anyone who shares our ideals of equitable, mutually advantageous cooperation.
Friends,
Being part of a diverse Russian civilisation means happiness, but, let me repeat, it also means responsibility and duty. Our civilisation is distinct. It has its own path and there is not a bit of arrogance or a feeling of superiority in this. This civilisation of ours – this is what’s important to us.
And we will fight for our Fatherland, our homeland of which there is only one, for our independence and sovereignty, for our culture and traditions. We will uphold and defend this in the name of our ancestors and our descendants, for the sake of Russia, its great history and its great future.
My congratulations to you.
All the best. Thank you very much.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2022, 18:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with heads of leading engineering schools and their industry partners
The President met with the heads of leading engineering schools and their industry partners, members of the Advanced Engineering Schools project. The meeting was held at the Novgorod Technical School.
September 21, 2022
17:00
Veliky Novgorod
3 of 7
Meeting with heads of leading engineering schools and their industry partners.
Before the meeting, Vladimir Putin toured an exhibition about the Novgorod Technical School laboratories.
Advanced Engineering Schools is a federal project of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, which includes leading Russian universities and Russian companies.
Its goal is to educate skilled personnel for the high-performance export-oriented sectors of the national economy and thereby ensure its technological independence, as well as to create new kinds of high-tech products jointly with businesses.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Advanced engineering schools sounds impressive and promising. In fact, Mr Andrei Nikitin suggested doing this in Novgorod, I think it was back in 2018, and then he continued working on that concept. This led to the first instructions for the Government and work on that idea here in Novgorod.
A year later, in 2019, the idea acquired a practical dimension. Mr Nikitin proposed developing it further. In 2021, United Russia took up the idea confidently, and it grew to a nationwide scale.
I am pleased that the idea has taken off because we need it very much now. Our colleagues have updated me on the certain areas. It is especially important now, although frankly, it was always important. Our large companies are used to buying everything they need, but when you cannot buy something, you have to create it yourself. The main thing is that we have the basis where we can do this, and it is first and foremost an intellectual base.
That is why it was so important to merge into this programme the intellectual capabilities, our early practical work, theory and applied research, our leading companies’ needs and financial capabilities as well as, most importantly, the end product market. The idea behind creating advanced engineering schools was to bring everything together in one place and achieve the success the country needs.
As I understand it, people in the audience have passed certain competitive procedures and won the competitions to create these schools. This is not just about Novgorod, it is being done all over the country, as far as I understand.
I am very glad that Mr Nikitin initiated this. We have gathered in Novgorod because Novgorod is known as the cradle of initiatives like this. Yaroslav the Wise instituted the first school for 300 children here in the 11th century. He (he received the noble nickname Wise much later, and for a good reason) was known not only for creating the first school, but also for focusing on the intellectual advancement of the nation and training specialists in various fields. Later, when he became a prince in Kiev, he continued this work there. But, as Andrei Nikitin just said, in Kiev he did everything mostly for the elite, whereas here he started with projects for the general public which was the right thing to do since the base is broader. Later, this practice was scaled up throughout the country by successive generations.
Let’s consider the above as opening remarks. I want to congratulate you on winning these competitions and wish you success. I am keen to hear you share your work plans and what kind of additional support you may need from the regional authorities, and who you work with at the federal centre, the Government, the Presidential Executive Office.
Please, Mr Nikitin, over to you.
<…>
See also
Visit to Novgorod Technical School
September 21, 2022
Geography
Novgorod Region
Topics
Professional training
Regions
Science and innovation
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2022, 17:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Novgorod Region Governor Andrei Nikitin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Governor of the Novgorod Region Andrei Nikitin. They discussed the region’s socioeconomic issues.
September 21, 2022
17:30
Veliky Novgorod
1 of 5
Meeting with Novgorod Region Governor Andrei Nikitin.
Andrei Nikitin
briefly described the results of his work during his five years as Governor. The budget has almost doubled; production growth rates are strong; and the region was second in Russia in average salary growth rates in 2021. The share of quality roads increased from 26 percent to 48 percent. In addition to federal programmes, the region drafted several regional programmes for supporting businesses. Those who are prepared to purchase equipment and deal with import substitution are given subsidised loans at 2 or 3 percent interest. The budget remains socially oriented.
The Governor spoke separately about assistance for the sponsored territory – the Vasilyevsky District of the Zaporozhye Region. It received assistance to resolve its key problems – preparations for the autumn-winter season, restoring the operation of the housing and utility systems, and the start of training at schools and kindergartens. More than 200 million rubles worth of humanitarian aid was allocated to this district: plumbing, glazing and school equipment. By way of assistance, municipal workers were invited to teach how to work with the Russian budget, how to become involved in national projects and take part in different programmes.
Returning to regional issues, Andrei Nikitin told the President about the construction of and major repairs at the Valdai Central District Hospital for which the region’s experts are drafting plans for comprehensive improvement in cooperation with Moscow.
A sore point was also discussed – the condition of cultural heritage landmarks in the region with rich history, most of which belong to foreign owners. In the 1990s, citizens of Latvia and other states bought them, but they are not doing anything with them. The President said that it is necessary to set deadlines for putting these properties in order and then to confiscate them if this is not done. Andrei Nikitin said that the mechanism for confiscation is now being discussed with lawyers. Vladimir Putin said that if the legal framework is inadequate, it must be upgraded, and he advised the Governor to make the relevant proposals.
Regarding sports development, Mr Nikitin talked about the construction of a modern water sports facility with Gazprom’s assistance. It will accommodate water polo, everything for water gymnastics and a variable depth pool. In this case it will be possible to hold Olympic class competitions there.
Gazprom also included the region in its ‘Gazprom for Children’ programme, and modern children’s playgrounds have started to appear in all districts. The region is building physical fitness and sports facilities together with Gazprom. In addition, in the next five years, with maximum assistance from the region, Gazprom plans to expand the gas infrastructure to as many facilities and homes as were covered in the last 50 years. These plans have already been included in the regional programmes.
The Governor mentioned that further road repairs are a challenge for the region. Its territory is covered with marshlands and water and many bridges need repairs. He also mentioned the problem of improving cities and reducing death rates. Some successes have been achieved, but they are not enough. It is necessary to resolve the problem of treating cardio-vascular diseases, especially for people in remote areas.
The discussion also touched on the issues of education, the need to attract young people and professionals to the region, to promote projects and development. Vladimir Putin praised the Governor for creating a good educational cluster in the Novgorod Region.
Geography
Novgorod Region
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Social services
Persons
Nikitin Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2022, 17:30
Text versionEvents
Address by the President of the Russian Federation
September 21, 2022
09:00
Address by the President of the Russian Federation
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
The subject of this address is the situation in Donbass and the course of the special military operation to liberate it from the neo-Nazi regime, which seized power in Ukraine in 2014 as the result of an armed state coup.
Today I am addressing you – all citizens of our country, people of different generations, ages and ethnicities, the people of our great Motherland, all who are united by the great historical Russia, soldiers, officers and volunteers who are fighting on the frontline and doing their combat duty, our brothers and sisters in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, Kherson and Zaporozhye regions and other areas that have been liberated from the neo-Nazi regime.
The issue concerns the necessary, imperative measures to protect the sovereignty, security and territorial integrity of Russia and support the desire and will of our compatriots to choose their future independently, and the aggressive policy of some Western elites, who are doing their utmost to preserve their domination and with this aim in view are trying to block and suppress any sovereign and independent development centres in order to continue to aggressively force their will and pseudo-values on other countries and nations.
See also
Executive Order on partial mobilisation in the Russian Federation
September 21, 2022
The goal of that part of the West is to weaken, divide and ultimately destroy our country. They are saying openly now that in 1991 they managed to split up the Soviet Union and now is the time to do the same to Russia, which must be divided into numerous regions that would be at deadly feud with each other.
They devised these plans long ago. They encouraged groups of international terrorists in the Caucasus and moved NATO’s offensive infrastructure close to our borders. They used indiscriminate Russophobia as a weapon, including by nurturing the hatred of Russia for decades, primarily in Ukraine, which was designed to become an anti-Russia bridgehead. They turned the Ukrainian people into cannon fodder and pushed them into a war with Russia, which they unleashed back in 2014. They used the army against civilians and organised a genocide, blockade and terror against those who refused to recognise the government that was created in Ukraine as the result of a state coup.
After the Kiev regime publicly refused to settle the issue of Donbass peacefully and went as far as to announce its ambition to possess nuclear weapons, it became clear that a new offensive in Donbass – there were two of them before – was inevitable, and that it would be inevitably followed by an attack on Russia’s Crimea, that is, on Russia.
In this connection, the decision to start a pre-emptive military operation was necessary and the only option. The main goal of this operation, which is to liberate the whole of Donbass, remains unaltered.
The Lugansk People’s Republic has been liberated from the neo-Nazis almost completely. Fighting in the Donetsk People’s Republic continues. Over the previous eight years, the Kiev occupation regime created a deeply echeloned line of permanent defences. A head-on attack against them would have led to heavy losses, which is why our units, as well as the forces of the Donbass republics, are acting competently and systematically, using military equipment and saving lives, moving step by step to liberate Donbass, purge cities and towns of the neo-Nazis, and help the people whom the Kiev regime turned into hostages and human shields.
As you know, professional military personnel serving under contract are taking part in the special military operation. Fighting side by side with them are volunteer units – people of different ethnicities, professions and ages who are real patriots. They answered the call of their hearts to rise up in defence of Russia and Donbass.
In this connection, I have already issued instructions for the Government and the Defence Ministry to determine the legal status of volunteers and personnel of the military units of the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics. It must be the same as the status of military professionals of the Russian army, including material, medical and social benefits. Special attention must be given to organising the supply of military and other equipment for volunteer units and Donbass people’s militia.
While acting to attain the main goals of defending Donbass in accordance with the plans and decisions of the Defence Ministry and the General Staff, our troops have liberated considerable areas in the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions and a number of other areas. This has created a protracted line of contact that is over 1,000 kilometres long.
This is what I would like to make public for the first time today. After the start of the special military operation, in particular after the Istanbul talks, Kiev representatives voiced quite a positive response to our proposals. These proposals concerned above all ensuring Russia’s security and interests. But a peaceful settlement obviously did not suit the West, which is why, after certain compromises were coordinated, Kiev was actually ordered to wreck all these agreements.
More weapons were pumped into Ukraine. The Kiev regime brought into play new groups of foreign mercenaries and nationalists, military units trained according to NATO standards and receiving orders from Western advisers.
At the same time, the regime of reprisals throughout Ukraine against their own citizens, established immediately after the armed coup in 2014, was harshly intensified. The policy of intimidation, terror and violence is taking on increasingly mass-scale, horrific and barbaric forms.
I want to stress the following. We know that the majority of people living in the territories liberated from the neo-Nazis, and these are primarily the historical lands of Novorossiya, do not want to live under the yoke of the neo-Nazi regime. People in the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions, in Lugansk and Donetsk saw and are seeing now the atrocities perpetrated by the neo-Nazis in the [Ukrainian-] occupied areas of the Kharkov region. The descendants of Banderites and members of Nazi punitive expeditions are killing, torturing and imprisoning people; they are settling scores, beating up, and committing outrages on peaceful civilians.
There were over 7.5 million people living in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and in the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions before the outbreak of hostilities. Many of them were forced to become refugees and leave their homes. Those who have stayed – they number about five million – are now exposed to artillery and missile attacks launched by the neo-Nazi militants, who fire at hospitals and schools and stage terrorist attacks against peaceful civilians.
We cannot, we have no moral right to let our kin and kith be torn to pieces by butchers; we cannot but respond to their sincere striving to decide their destiny on their own.
The parliaments of the Donbass people’s republics and the military-civilian administrations of the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions have adopted decisions to hold referendums on the future of their territories and have appealed to Russia to support this.
I would like to emphasise that we will do everything necessary to create safe conditions for these referendums so that people can express their will. And we will support the choice of future made by the majority of people in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions.
Friends,
Today our armed forces, as I have mentioned, are fighting on the line of contact that is over 1,000 kilometres long, fighting not only against neo-Nazi units but actually the entire military machine of the collective West.
In this situation, I consider it necessary to take the following decision, which is fully adequate to the threats we are facing. More precisely, I find it necessary to support the proposal of the Defence Ministry and the General Staff on partial mobilisation in the Russian Federation to defend our Motherland and its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and to ensure the safety of our people and people in the liberated territories.
As I have said, we are talking about partial mobilisation. In other words, only military reservists, primarily those who served in the armed forces and have specific military occupational specialties and corresponding experience, will be called up.
Before being sent to their units, those called up for active duty will undergo mandatory additional military training based on the experience of the special military operation.
I have already signed Executive Order on partial mobilisation.
In accordance with legislation, the houses of the Federal Assembly – the Federation Council and the State Duma – will be officially notified about this in writing today.
The mobilisation will begin today, September 21. I am instructing the heads of the regions to provide the necessary assistance to the work of military recruitment offices.
I would like to point out that the citizens of Russia called up in accordance with the mobilisation order will have the status, payments and all social benefits of military personnel serving under contract.
Additionally, the Executive Order on partial mobilisation also stipulates additional measures for the fulfilment of the state defence order. The heads of defence industry enterprises will be directly responsible for attaining the goals of increasing the production of weapons and military equipment and using additional production facilities for this purpose. At the same time, the Government must address without any delay all aspects of material, resource and financial support for our defence enterprises.
Friends,
The West has gone too far in its aggressive anti-Russia policy, making endless threats to our country and people. Some irresponsible Western politicians are doing more than just speak about their plans to organise the delivery of long-range offensive weapons to Ukraine, which could be used to deliver strikes at Crimea and other Russian regions.
Such terrorist attacks, including with the use of Western weapons, are being delivered at border areas in the Belgorod and Kursk regions. NATO is conducting reconnaissance through Russia’s southern regions in real time and with the use of modern systems, aircraft, vessels, satellites and strategic drones.
Washington, London and Brussels are openly encouraging Kiev to move the hostilities to our territory. They openly say that Russia must be defeated on the battlefield by any means, and subsequently deprived of political, economic, cultural and any other sovereignty and ransacked.
They have even resorted to the nuclear blackmail. I am referring not only to the Western-encouraged shelling of the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant, which poses a threat of a nuclear disaster, but also to the statements made by some high-ranking representatives of the leading NATO countries on the possibility and admissibility of using weapons of mass destruction – nuclear weapons – against Russia.
I would like to remind those who make such statements regarding Russia that our country has different types of weapons as well, and some of them are more modern than the weapons NATO countries have. In the event of a threat to the territorial integrity of our country and to defend Russia and our people, we will certainly make use of all weapon systems available to us. This is not a bluff.
The citizens of Russia can rest assured that the territorial integrity of our Motherland, our independence and freedom will be defended – I repeat – by all the systems available to us. Those who are using nuclear blackmail against us should know that the wind rose can turn around.
It is our historical tradition and the destiny of our nation to stop those who are keen on global domination and threaten to split up and enslave our Motherland. Rest assured that we will do it this time as well.
I believe in your support.
Geography
Ukraine
Topics
Armed Forces
Foreign policy
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2022, 09:00
Text version