Events
Meeting with Head of the Circle of Kindness Foundation Archpriest Alexander Tkachenko
Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with Archpriest Alexander Tkachenko, head of the Circle of Kindness Foundation for supporting children with serious illnesses. The discussion focused on the results of the charity organisation’s first year of work and its future development.
June 1, 2022
16:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 2
Head of the Circle of Kindness Foundation Archpriest Alexander Tkachenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Father Alexander.
Archpriest Alexander Tkachenko: Hello, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Hello.
The Foundation was created more than a year ago on January 5, 2021, by Presidential Executive Order #16. It is supported by the funds consolidated in the federal budget, namely, an elevated personal income tax on individuals with annual incomes in excess of 5 million rubles.
I am aware that the Foundation is operating steadily with even more funds than expected, 82 billion, in its accounts, so it is properly funded. I am aware that you have questions about its future work, and you compiled a report covering the past year. Please go ahead, I am listening. I think much has been accomplished, and the work is being carried out effectively. I am also aware that you have questions concerning the further improvement of this highly noble cause designed to help children with severe, life-threatening chronic diseases, including rare ones, and this is much-needed work.
You have been engaged in this work for a long time now. I am aware that you started out with a children's hospice in St Petersburg. The Circle of Kindness’ activities must be planned so that it can accomplish all the tasks at hand.
Please go ahead, Father Alexander. I am listening to you.
Alexander Tkachenko: Thank you very much.
I would like to begin by thanking you for creating our country’s kindest foundation, which has become a true miracle for many people. You have on your desk an album with photographs of children – a very small number of them – who received help from the Foundation. There are more than 3,000 such children.
The Foundation receives very touching messages and videos from the parents, in which they thank the Foundation for giving hope to their children – they now have a hope for the future, have proper childhood and can go back to their everyday routine of playing and studying.
The Foundation has embodied society’s ideas about justice. All sums received from the increased tax rate go to the Foundation. All citizens of Russia, regardless of their place of residence or social status of their family, can have access to the latest medications.
I will tell you about this, if I may. These unique medications bring children back to life. Spinal muscular atrophy was the first illness under review. Now children have access to all three medications. It takes the foundation all but 10 days to arrange for the most expensive injection that is prescribed for all children who have been just diagnosed with this illness. It saves their lives. The introduction of neonatal screening will reveal many ill children, and the Foundation will save their lives. This is why the Foundation is unique.
The Foundation has medications that restore the eyesight of children with a form of retinal degeneration. There are medications that allow children with a cartilage development disorder to grow to the average height. This is vital for a child’s dignity and future.
The main point is that assistance is guaranteed. Before parents had to look for this aid and even appeal to courts, whereas now the Foundation buys medications for a year ahead and even for the first quarter of the next year to ensure continuity.
The Foundation has started supplying medications to Russian citizens living in the Donetsk People’s Republic. This is also very important.
Cooperation with NGOs allows us to plan joint actions and find patients that regional healthcare systems fail to see for some reason.
In turn, the Foundation conducts seminars and lectures for doctors.
I am trying to describe the Foundation’s major activities with these short facts. In reality, the Foundation has turned into a real miracle, and if it were not for it, it is difficult even to imagine what life would be like for many families.
As for the Foundation’s development, you instructed us to analyse the possibility of providing medications to children after they reach the age of 18. The Foundation’s reserves make it possible to raise this age. If you support us, the Foundation will draft amendments to legal regulations, and we will be able to provide children with medications up to the end of the calendar year or even longer. This will allow the regions to change their budgets accordingly and ensure continuity. Many people are waiting for this decision.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s do as you suggest. How much did you plan? 60 billion rubles? And in reality you have 80 billion, right?
Alexander Tkachenko: Eighty. Taking into account the money saved from the past year, the budget amounts to 122 billion.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, let’s do it.
Alexander Tkachenko: There will be just 70–100 children a year in this category. It is very important to ensure that medical treatment is not interrupted. Otherwise, all results will be lost.
Vladimir Putin: I understand.
<…>
Topics
Children
Social services
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2022, 16:45
Text versionEvents
Meeting with families awarded the Order of Parental Glory
On International Children's Day, Vladimir Putin had a videoconference meeting with families awarded the Order of Parental Glory.
June 1, 2022
15:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 3
Participants in a meeting with families awarded the Order of Parental Glory.
Taking part in the videoconference meeting with the President were large families from the Voronezh Region, Murmansk, Yalta, Beslan, Saransk, Nizhnevartovsk, Norilsk and Yakutsk.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
First of all, I would like to congratulate you and all citizens of our country on International Children’s Day.
I would like to give special greetings to the large and close-knit families who are taking part in our meeting today. I am confident that children are proud that their fathers and mothers have been awarded one of the most important and honorary state decorations in Russia, the Order of Parental Glory.
Your relatives and friends feel proud of you as well. Our society highly and wholeheartedly respects the couples that have chosen the difficult but wonderful path of having a large family. This attitude is part of our national character. It is rooted in our thousand-year-long history. Families with only one or two children were an exception in Russia in the past, when most families had three, four or five children.
It is gratifying that the tradition of having large families is reviving today, gradually and one step at a time, and increasingly more people are becoming aware of the high moral and spiritual value of family ties and the continuity of generations, and of merits that look simple and understandable yet are extremely important to everyone, namely respect for our elders and care for children, mutual support and the joy of communication. I would like to point out that these are the fundamental values of all the traditional religions in Russia.
Those who were born into and grew up in large families with their brothers and sisters feel and know this from childhood. Spiritual generosity and diligence, open-heartedness and responsibility become their main features and determine their decisions and actions when they become adults and independent people. You can usually rely on those who grew up in a large family. They will not betray their friends, colleagues or homeland.
This is why large families are respected so much in our society, and this is why the state is giving priority support to them, creating conditions where parents and grandparents, tutors or foster parents can take proper care of the rising generation and help children acquire knowledge, nurture their talents, believe in themselves, think big and grow up to be well-educated and upright people, worthy citizens of Russia.
We spoke about the need to enhance the wellbeing and living standards of large families at the recent State Council Presidium meeting. Maybe you have noticed this. We then discussed support measures for families with many children. For example, the programme providing subsidised family mortgages for large families will be extended until at least December 31, 2023. This is a programme for these families, and that includes your families. In general, we agreed to seriously upgrade and expand the provisions of the Presidential Executive Order On Measures of Social Support for Large Families. We also agreed to restore – I want to specifically note this – the Mother Heroine honorary title, which existed in Soviet times.
Here is what I would like to suggest. We have just discussed this issue with our colleagues in the Government and the Executive Office. Previously, awarding the Order of Parental Glory medal did not involve a financial bonus. I am referring specifically to the medal of the order. I suggest introducing a lump sum payment as a bonus. There was a lump sum payment of 100,000 rubles for the order but nothing for the medal. I suggest a lump sum payment of 200,000 rubles for the medal. With the Order of Parental Glory, I suggest awarding a lump sum payment of 500,000 rubles with it instead of the previous 100,000 rubles. As for the mothers that are awarded the Mother Heroine title, I suggest that they receive a lump sum payment of one million rubles.
I will repeat that supporting families with children and protecting motherhood and childhood are an absolute priority for us and not only at state level. We do not, we should not have children that are not ours. Special care and attention to their needs is part of our cultural and moral values.
Today, on International Children’s Day we cannot but recall the children of Donbass, of course. They were subjected to mortal danger for eight years. The younger children have never experienced life without bombing and shelling. Many were wounded and many, to our great regret, perished in the war unleashed by the Kiev regime against Donbass. Many children lost their parents and there are some who have been left without any relatives at all.
We will do all we can to provide them with every kind of social support, such as medical aid, a good education and an interesting in-demand profession. Naturally, we will help children who have lost their families to acquire loving, friendly and generous families like yours.
Using this opportunity, I would like to hear from you, friends, what measures on the part of the state, regions and local authorities are most important for supporting large families. What concrete additional assistance you specifically or parents of many children from among your relatives, friends or neighbours need.
I would like to sincerely congratulate you on the well-deserved decorations and wish you all the best in life.
But first, I would like to congratulate the Novikovs family on their daughter’s birthday – Anastasia is 16 today. Nastya, I wish you success in all of your undertakings, good health and all the best.
I am pleased to give the floor to Maria Lvova-Belova
.
Ms Lvova-Belova, go ahead please.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Many thanks to everyone.
You know, this is not the first time I hear: “We are fine, we are content with everything.” The thing is that government officials cannot be content with themselves because we are obviously indebted to you, to such families as yours. It is necessary to enhance support for large families and for motherhood and childhood in general. But if you have paid attention, we are trying to do this year in and year out and are consistently developing support measures on behalf of the state.
I would like to thank you for the kind words you said to my colleagues and me.
Indeed, the country has many problems, but there are always many problems and in this sense, nothing unusual is happening here. That said, what we are seeing in the area related to ensuring national security and support of our people in Donbass is, of course, an extraordinary situation. Nonetheless, some fundamentals are transient, and some things require our permanent attention no matter what. One of the latter is support for motherhood and childhood. It is in this area that the state is concentrating certain administrative and financial efforts. I can assure you that this is how it is going to be in the future.
I would like to offer my best wishes to you on this holiday – Children’s Day – and to congratulate all the participants in our current meeting on their state decorations.
Thank you and all the best to you!
Be happy!
Topics
Children
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2022, 15:40
Text versionEvents
Address to participants of Bolshaya Peremena festival
Vladimir Putin extended greetings in a video address to the participants of Bolshaya Peremena festival.
June 1, 2022
13:05
Address to participants of Bolshaya Peremena festival.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I am sincerely delighted to welcome all the participants in the Bolshaya Peremena festival. And before I say anything else, I would certainly like to congratulate you all – schoolchildren, parents and teachers – on International Children's Day.
I know that today, Moscow’s VDNKh exhibition grounds is for the first time hosting a gathering that has brought together members of over 300 children's and youth movements, projects, volunteer associations, including national – such as the Bolshaya Peremena community, the Russian Schoolchildren Movement, and the Young Army – and regional and local ones from different cities and regions, as well as from the Lugansk and Donetsk people's republics.
You are so different, but you all strive to show your best sides; young as you are, you are trying to tangibly benefit our country, your Motherland. And it's a good thing that thanks to this festival, you can get to know each other, to see how much you have in common, and to learn something new.
Bolshaya Peremena is not just a fun and festive event – it provides a space for you to figure out and fully reveal your talents and abilities, choose your future profession, get support for any creative, environmental, volunteer, scientific or entrepreneurial ideas of your own. Increasingly, it is you, schoolchildren, young people who become co-sponsors and initiators of projects that unite your peers.
I would like to say that I support your initiative to establish a joint children's movement. Its main purpose is to create an equal, accessible and entertaining environment for development and self-realisation in a variety of areas, but how this will be achieved is up to you. Your opinion, your suggestions are of key importance here.
You happen to be living and growing up in a very dynamic time, when the world is changing, and changing rapidly. I am sure that Russia will, if anything, enhance its strength, independence and sovereignty in this complex world, and this work is broader than any particular area. It should span the economy, technology, science and many other areas, including civil society and patriotic education. I believe a strong civil society and the patriotic activity of young people are of the essence.
And a lot really depends on you – on your being dedicated and proactive. As you know, a country’s success comprises the work and achievements of people united by common values, culture, traditions, and respect for history. It is about people who strive to contribute to Russia’s development, people who want their deeds – not words – to determine what is happening in their city, village and country.
I have no doubt that you are just that. You, your generation, have everything you need to build a future worth living together: you have dedication, responsibility, love for your Motherland, and willingness to keep learning and help others. I believe in you and believe that you will definitely make all your dreams come true.
And once again, happy International Children's Day.
Good luck with everything, and all the best.
Topics
Children
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2022, 13:05
Text version