Events
Meeting with IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi
Vladimir Putin met with Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Rafael Grossi.
October 11, 2022
18:10
St Petersburg
6 of 7
With IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Director General, I am very happy to welcome you in St Petersburg, in Russia.
Ever since the Agency was created, Russia not only always supported it, but actually stood at its origins, since 1957, supporting the Agency’s activities all the way. We have been active in the IAEA up to this day. We attach great importance to the mission of the Agency to which you too, as its head, devote your life, years of your life.
We have always favoured equal access of all states to the blessings of peaceful nuclear energy. That said, we believed and still believe that it is necessary to do everything to limit the spread of military nuclear technology. We were the first to develop a fast-neutron reactor. As you know, we are making progress in shipbuilding and atomic-powered propulsion systems. Russia was the first to create floating nuclear power plants. In general, Russia has been a world leader in the field of nuclear innovations.
We see today elements of excessive and dangerous politicisation of anything related to nuclear activity, but we are very hopeful that we will be able – also thanks to you efforts – to reduce the rhetoric on this matter and return to normal conditions in this area of our activity and cooperation, regardless of the turbulent and complex processes on the world stage.
We are very happy to see you and will be pleased to discuss with you all issues of mutual interest and probably even some issues that cause concern to some, including us, for instance everything related to the situation around the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant. In any case, we are open to this dialogue and glad to see you.
Welcome.
IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi: Thank you very much, Mr President, for seeing me today. As you say, the issues related to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy go down in history, and, of course, Russia has always been a main actor in all these efforts, technologically speaking and otherwise, and for the IAEA, of course, one of the main interlocutors in the many areas of work that the Agency has.
And as you know, in the current times, with the energy issues, global warming, so many things bring us one way or another to nuclear energy and what the role of nuclear energy can be in the present and in the future as well.
Of course, like you rightly point out, the issues of the day are perhaps those which make our discussion today very important and indispensable, indeed, since we do have issues that have to do with nuclear safety and nuclear security, particularly the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant. And as you know, I have been displaying efforts to try to avoid a nuclear accident that could be very detrimental in general terms and in particular in the region.
So, I look forward to this important conversation with you today.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 11, 2022, 18:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the UAE Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
Vladimir Putin met with President of the United Arab Emirates Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan in the Constantine Palace.
October 11, 2022
14:15
St Petersburg
1 of 5
With President of the United Arab Emirates Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Your Highness, I am very happy to see you. Welcome to Russia.
Ever since we established diplomatic relations 50 years ago, our contacts have been developing steadily and only going upwards. Although current international relations are complicated, relations between Russia and the United Arab Emirates are an important factor of regional and overall global stability.
We are grateful to you for your mediation efforts that help resolve a number of rather sensitive humanitarian issues. I know that you are concerned about the entire situation that is developing, and I know about your desire to make a contribution to resolving all contentious issues, including the ongoing crisis in Ukraine. I would like to note that, indeed, this substantial factor makes it possible to use your influence to help gradually resolve the situation.
I know about your concern over the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant and all the developments around it. I will inform you in great detail about this aspect. This afternoon, I will meet with IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi.
Speaking of bilateral relations, as I have already said at the beginning, they are developing very successfully. Last year, prior to the crisis in Ukraine, trade volumes soared by 65 percent, and they continue to increase this year despite all the difficulties. In fact, they have expanded by 17 percent. Although this growth is not as impressive as in 2021, it is quite substantial.
We are working actively within OPEC Plus. I know your position, our actions and our decisions are not directed against anyone; we have no intention of creating problems for anyone, and we are not doing that. Our actions aim to stabilise global energy markets, so that consumers of energy resources and those supplying them to global markets would feel calm, stable and confident, and so that supply and demand would be balanced. We therefore respond to market requirements all the time, and we try to do this in line with current developments.
I find it very important to discuss the regional situation with you; a lot of problems remain there. The role of the United Arab Emirates and their influence on the regional situation are, of course, quite impressive, and I find it very important to discuss issues related to the situation in and around Syria with you.
Thank you for finding time to come to St Petersburg.
President of the United Arab Emirates Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
(retranslated): Mr President, I am very glad to see you and would like to extend my best wishes to you on your recent birthday.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. Shukran.
Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan: I would like to mention a range of issues that are important for bilateral relations. I would like to note that we have not seen each other for three years. It was a difficult time due to the coronavirus.
However, despite the challenging coronavirus conditions, we have achieved a lot: our trade grew from US$2.5 billion to US$5 billion. And [the Emirates] welcomed about half a million tourists from Russia: this is what we have achieved thanks to Russia’s assistance.
This year we will also mark the opening of the first Russian school in the Emirates. There are 4,000 Russian companies working in our country. All this strengthens the bridge that connects us, the bridge of cooperation. I hope that in the coming years we will be able to significantly increase all these indicators.
I am very glad to see you, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for your visit. I remember my visit to the Emirates in 2019 and will never forget it.
Thank you very much.
<…>
See also
State visit to the United Arab Emirates
October 15, 2019
Geography
United Arab Emirates
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Al Nahyan Mohammed bin Zayed
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 11, 2022, 14:15
Text version