Events
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
The President held a briefing session with permanent members of the Security Council via videoconference.
November 2, 2022
17:10
Sochi
1 of 2
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
, and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today, we will discuss a crucially important issue of implementing Russia’s State Anti-Drug Policy Strategy to 2030 and additional measures to counter illegal drug trafficking.
Before we start, I have a few words to say about another matter, which is the earlier announced suspension of our participation in the grain deal which was originally designed to help the poorest countries by exporting grain from Ukraine.
Everyone knows that, unfortunately, Ukraine used this humanitarian corridor to attempt to attack the Russian Black Sea Fleet. In this connection, we decided to suspend our participation in the grain convoys.
We demanded that the Ukrainian side provide assurances and guarantees that nothing like that would happen in the future, and that humanitarian corridors would not be used for military purposes. Our Turkish partners acted as mediators in clarifying this situation. Our Defence Ministry received information from the Turkish side that Ukraine had provided these assurances and that these humanitarian corridors would not be used for military purposes.
In this regard, I instructed the Defence Ministry to resume our full participation in this effort. However, Russia reserves the right to withdraw from these agreements if Ukraine violates these guarantees.
In any case, even if Russia withdraws from this deal, we, as we made clear earlier in this regard, will be willing to supply the full amount of grain that was supplied from the territory of Ukraine to the poorest countries, which is just 4 percent. The deal was carried out to ensure the food security of the poorest countries, but only 4 percent from the territory of Ukraine went to the poorest countries based on the UN’s classifications. The remaining grain, over 40 percent – 46 percent – went to the EU countries.
So, if Ukraine breaks its vows and we withdraw from this agreement, we will supply the entire volume of grain that has been so far delivered from the territory of Ukraine to the poorest countries free of charge.
In addition, we will not obstruct grain shipments from Ukraine to the Republic of Turkiye in any way in the future, bearing in mind Turkiye’s neutral status in the conflict, the Republic of Turkiye’s grain processing industry capabilities and President Erdogan
’s efforts to ensure the interests of the poorest economies. We have no doubts in this regard whatsoever, and we will continue to cooperate with the Republic of Turkiye no matter what.
That is what I wanted to say before we start. Let's get to work. Mr Kolokoltsev is our next speaker.
<…>
See also
Security Council News
Topics
Foreign policy
Healthcare
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: November 2, 2022, 17:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government Coordination Council on the needs of Russia’s Armed Forces
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, with members of the Government Coordination Council on the needs of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, other troops, military formations and bodies.
November 2, 2022
15:50
Sochi
2 of 2
During the meeting with Government Coordination Council on the needs of Russia’s Armed Forces (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Last week – on October 25 – we held the first working meeting and mapped out the main tasks and priorities of the Government Coordination Council. We agreed to meet regularly in order to promptly resolve the arising issues on the functioning of individual economic sectors, primarily the defence industry complex in this case, to support our Armed Forces, military units and formations taking part in the special military operation.
I know that the Government and the State Council have already established the necessary organisational mechanisms for arranging daily work and for close coordination with key economic sectors, as I said, industrial and transport companies, with our regions, the Defence Ministry and other security, defence and law enforcement agencies.
I would like to emphasise that all this work should be built not on some bureaucratic norms and instructions. Of course, they exist and are there for a reason. Yet, in the current environment, we must switch to a new operational mode, as I said during our previous meeting. We must organise this work in a way so that nothing prevents us from achieving the concrete results we need. This must be a system-wide effort.
For example, for every item of gear or equipment, we must listen to those who use them and understand how these items perform and whether they are fit for their intended purpose. I am referring to the equipment, medical first aid kits or any other things that may even seem unimportant at first sight. The same applies to weapons, which need constant and uninterrupted upgrades and improvements to remain effective.
For this, as I said, it is essential that we promote competition among manufacturers and developers.
Competition matters in general for the effective functioning of the economy but in this case, it is particularly important.
All activities of the Coordination Council must be as flexible as possible and be aimed at a very specific result. This is exactly why this instrument, this mechanism was created.
Today, we will listen to the heads of working groups on several areas. Mr Manturov
will tell us about material and technical support, and then I will ask our colleagues to have their say on all the areas of our joint work that I mentioned.
But of course, first, I would like to ask Mr Mishustin
to deliver his report and tell us about the course of the work as a whole.
Go ahead, please.
<…>
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 2, 2022, 15:50
Text version