Events
The President of Russia and the President of Algeria made statements for the press
Following Russian-Algerian talks, Vladimir Putin and Abdelmadjid Tebboune made statements for the mass media.
June 15, 2023
16:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Following the Russian-Algerian talks, Vladimir Putin and Abdelmadjid Tebboune made statements for the media. Photo: Mikhail Metzel
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends.
We just held talks with President of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria, Mr Tebboune, who is on a state visit in Russia. The talks took place in a businesslike atmosphere and were quite productive.
See also
Russia-Algeria talks
June 15, 2023
This is borne out by a solid package of signed interstate, intergovernmental and interdepartmental documents aimed at further strengthening relations between our countries in various diverse areas. Journalists have just seen the exchange of some of these documents.
I will mention one of them – the Declaration on Enhanced Strategic Partnership between our countries. This is a most important bilateral document with clear guidelines for interaction in the long-term perspective.
Overall, the Algerian President’s programme here is extremely intensive and substantial. He has met with the Prime Minister of Russia and the speakers of both Federal Assembly chambers. Mr Tebboune also attended the Russia-Algeria business forum and the unveiling ceremony for a square named after Algerian national hero Emir Abdelkader in the centre of Moscow. I’d like to note that in tsarist times, I believe, Alexander II awarded him with the Order of the White Eagle in his time.
Tomorrow, we will continue talking with Mr President at the main plenary session of the 26th St Petersburg International Economic Forum in St Petersburg.
I would like to emphasise that we are sincerely happy to receive, here in the Kremlin, our friend, President of Algeria Abdelmadjid Tebboune since Algeria is our key partner in the Arab world and in Africa. Russian-Algerian relations are truly constructive and mutually beneficial. They rest on respect and consideration for each other’s interests, and we continue developing them in the spirit of friendship and mutual support.
Our bilateral cooperation goes back a long time. Last year marked the 60th anniversary of diplomatic ties. As a reminder, our country helped our Algerian friends fight colonialism and was among the first to recognise the independence of Algeria. It contributed to the development of Algerian statehood and the strengthening of the young republic’s position in the international arena.
Our specialists, engineers and construction workers, helped build major industrial and energy infrastructure facilities, as well as important manufacturing enterprises in Algeria. Many of them, after modernisation, continue to function successfully to this day and make a significant contribution to Algeria’s economic development.
Today, we discussed in detail a wide range of issues, including bilateral relations in the political, economic and humanitarian spheres, as well as priority items on the regional and international agendas.
With regard to economic cooperation, Algeria has for many years been among Russia’s leading trading partners in Africa. Suffice it to say that in the first quarter alone, our trade grew by over 73 percent and mutual trade in agricultural products doubled.
Our interaction in the energy sector – I will come to this a little later – is quite significant, with Algeria and Russia being oil and gas producing countries.
The joint Russian-Algerian intergovernmental commission [for trade, economic, scientific and technical cooperation] is a permanent body. Its regular, 11th meeting is scheduled to be held in Moscow in the second half of the year and will focus on deepening mutually beneficial business and investment contacts and promoting large-scale projects.
Without doubt, our efforts to expand mutual transactions in national currencies are crucial. They will shield mutual trade from third countries’ impact and adverse developments on international foreign exchange markets.
As I’ve already said, Russia and Algeria are successfully developing cooperation in the energy sector. Major Russian energy companies have long been working in the Algerian market. Thus, in cooperation with the Algerian company Sonatrach, Gazprom is taking part in developing the El Assel oil and gas field in the east of Algeria’s section of the Sahara Desert. Transneft, Stroytransgaz, Power Machines (Silovyye Machiny) and other major Russian companies have strong business ties in Algeria as well.
We know that Algeria is interested in developing its national nuclear energy industry. The Rosatom State Corporation has unique experience and competences in this area. Its technology is unmatched in the world. It is ready to take part in joint projects, including those in the non-energy use of nuclear technology, for instance, in medicine and agriculture.
There are good opportunities for Russian-Algerian business cooperation in a number of other areas, including the auto industry, transport and agricultural equipment manufacturing, the peaceful use of outer space, communications and telecommunications. Importantly, Russia is ready not only to supply equipment and organise its after-sales maintenance but also to localise production in Algeria and to educate Algerian professionals.
Russia has traditionally done much to educate highly qualified Algerian national personnel. Overall, about 20,000 Algerians have received education at our universities, and about 1,500 Algerian students are continuing their education now. Considering Algerians’ high interest in studying in Russia, we have decided to increase the quota for state-funded capacity by one third for Algeria.
During the discussion of the most pressing regional and international issues, we agreed that the views of our states are identical or similar on the majority of them. Russia and Algeria are striving to coordinate their positions within multilateral associations. Considering that next year Algeria will receive non-permanent UN Security Council member status, we are motivated to intensify our interaction on all urgent issues on the UN agenda.
And, of course, we consider joint efforts with our Algerian colleagues to stabilise world energy markets very important, including in the OPEC Plus format and at the Gas Exporting Countries Forum.
Regional discussions focused on the state of affairs in Libya, Sudan, Western Sahara, and the Palestinian-Israeli settlement. Since Algeria is a member of the Contact Group of the League of Arab States on Ukraine, I outlined for my Algerian colleague Russia’s view of the core causes behind the conflict and our assessment of the current situation. Just a short while ago, before entering the auditorium, the President and I discussed this in detail, and we are grateful to Algeria and the President of Algeria for his willingness to act as mediator.
Certainly, we discussed Russia-Algeria interaction in the military and defence technology spheres, which has enjoyed success over many decades. Russia assists Algeria’s law enforcement agencies in fighting the terrorist threat. In November 2022, the Russian-Algerian joint anti-terrorist exercise Desert Shield was held in Algeria.
Generally speaking, we maintain a regular dialogue with our Algerian partners on a wide range of issues related to current security challenges and threats in the African region and the world at large.
On a separate note, I would like to say that this year can be described as a special year for Russia’s relations with Africa. Our contacts with African countries are as intensive as ever and the President’s visit clearly shows it.
On Saturday, I plan to receive a delegation of heads and high-ranking representatives from several African countries to discuss an initiative put forward by the African states regarding Ukraine.
As a reminder, the second Russia-Africa summit will be held in St Petersburg next month. The President has an invitation to the summit, and I very much hope that he will be able to lead the Algerian delegation in person.
In closing, I would like to say that the visit by the President of Algeria is a success, which, without a doubt, will give a boost to comprehensive progress in Russia-Algeria strategic partnership for the benefit of the people of our countries.
Thank you very much for your patience and time.
President of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria Abdelmadjid Tebboune
(retranslated): In the name of Allah!
Mr President, my friend,
I would like to begin by once again saying what a joy it is to be in the Russian Federation. I wanted to thank you for the hospitality and for the warm welcome: we feel at home here. This visit is taking place as part of our bilateral efforts.
The talks with the President of the Russian Federation were candid and friendly, which is indicative of the high level of our relations. We agreed with everything that Comrade Putin said. We talked as friends about bilateral relations in all areas and ways to strengthen them.
We have a shared perspective on the regional and international situation. We are very pleased that our opinions overlap. We agreed on Western Sahara and the Sahel, the political issue, and the situation in the Middle East at large, and we also talked about Libya.
This meeting gave us an opportunity to say a big thank you to the Russian Federation for supporting Algeria in its efforts to become a non-permanent member of the [UN] Security Council. This means relations between Algeria and the Russian Federation are good, which we can see from the adoption of a new Declaration on Enhanced Strategic Partnership between the two countries, which we have signed.
Our relations go back over 60 years, and we have implemented a new roadmap of cooperation between our two countries. We have signed several agreements and a Declaration of Partnership, which includes our plans to expand intergovernmental relations. We look forward to seeing good growth dynamics in the coming years.
We will promote bilateral relations, and we will make use of the experience of the Russian Federation in all areas. The economy and the manufacturing industry are open for cooperation.
I would like to take this opportunity and ask investors to invest in Algeria, which currently boasts a favourable environment for doing business. We have adopted a new law on investment.
To reiterate, our points of view on all issues overlap. Russia is a friendly country, and we share a common opinion.
All Algerians thank Mr Putin for naming a square in Moscow after Emir Abdelkader. Thank you very much again, Comrade President. For the sake of history, I would like to remind everyone that the Tsar [Alexander II] awarded Emir Abdelkader the Order of the White Eagle. Under Putin, we were presented with a square named after Emir Abdelkader.
Yesterday, I met with the Algerian community. Also yesterday, I presented an award to a Russian man who took part in mine clearance in Algeria. Many thanks go to the Russian army for taking part in mine clearance. Many regions were cleared of mines. The Russian Federation lent Algeria a helping hand in cleanup efforts following nuclear tests in the desert [conducted by France] as well.
Many thanks to Comrade Putin and the Russian Federation, a friendly country. Thank you very much for trusting us, we will meet your expectations. In closing, I would like to thank Comrade Putin for strengthening our political partnership and I thank him for his personal efforts.
Long live Russia, Russian-Algerian friendship and Russian-Algerian cooperation!
Geography
Algeria
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Persons
Tebboune Abdelmadjid
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 15, 2023, 16:20
Text versionEvents
Russia-Algeria talks
Vladimir Putin held talks in the Kremlin with President of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria Abdelmadjid Tebboune, who is in Russia on a state visit.
June 15, 2023
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 10
With President of Algeria Abdelmadjid Tebboune before Russian-Algerian talks. Photo: Sergey Pyatakov, RIA Novosti
The agenda covered matters related to promoting strategic cooperation between Russia and Algeria in various sectors, as well as major international issues, including the situation in the Middle East and North Africa.
After a welcome ceremony held in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s St George Hall, the leaders of the two countries had a conversation, followed by an expanded format meeting.
Following the talks, a package of documents was signed, including the Declaration on Enhanced Strategic Cooperation between Russia and Algeria.
Also signed were the Convention between the Russian Federation and the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria on Extradition, intergovernmental agreements on cooperation in mass communications, in quarantine and plant protection, and in space exploration and the use of outer space for peaceful purposes.
In addition, the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation and the Algerian Ministry of Culture and Arts signed a cooperation programme for 2023–2025; the justice ministries of the two countries signed a protocol on cooperation; the related ministries signed a memorandum of understanding on cooperation on water resources; and the Delovaya Rossiya business association and the Algerian Economic Revival Council signed the Memorandum on Cooperation.
In addition, Vladimir Putin and Abdelmadjid Tebboune gave statements for the media.
* * *
Beginning of the narrow-format Russia-Algeria talks
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
Welcome to Russia. We are delighted to see you here.
Our country attaches special importance to its relations with Algeria, which can be described as strategic ties. On our way to this room today, Mr President and I recalled that relations between Russia and Algeria started to take shape and develop back in the mid-1950s. We can say without exaggeration that these were strategic relations even back then.
Over these years, the people of Russia and the heroic and, I would say, courageous people of Algeria, considering the fact that they had to fight for independence for many years and won, have developed a very good relationship. Last year, our two countries marked 60 years of diplomatic ties.
As you know, the USSR has offered its Algerian friends meaningful support in its war for independence. During the first years of independence, the USSR supported Algeria as it emerged as an independent, sovereign state, and helped it develop many sectors of its economy.
Russia-Algeria interaction is truly multifaceted and has a tangible potential for further development. Mr President, following our talks we will sign a declaration on deepening strategic partnership between Russia and Algeria, which will launch a new, more advanced stage in our bilateral relations.
Regular political dialogue is playing an important role. You and I are practically always in touch, our colleagues are also working — the Foreign Minister [Sergei Lavrov], the Security Council Secretary [Nikolai Patrushev], and Speaker of the Russian Parliament’s upper chamber Valentina Matviyenko. The Intergovernmental Commission is operating.
Algeria is among Russia’s top three trading partners in Africa. As far as I know, yesterday you must have attended the Russia—Algeria business forum. I hope that there will be increasing interest from both sides in such events. Looking ahead, I would like to say that we will be happy to see you at the second Russia-Africa Summit in St Petersburg in late July.
I would also like to note that Russia-Algeria coordination at multilateral forums and organisations is at a good level as well. Our efforts in OPEC Plus and the Gas Exporting Countries Forum are facilitating stabilisation of the global energy markets.
We continue our constructive cooperation at other venues, in particular, the UN. I hope that with Algeria’s election as a Security Council member for 2024–2025, our interaction will only become stronger.
Our humanitarian ties are making headway. Yesterday’s opening of a square named after Algeria’s national hero Emir Abdelkader in the centre of Moscow was also timed to coincide with your visit. This square will become another good, striking symbol of strong Russia-Algeria friendship.
Welcome, Mr President.
President of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria Abdelmadjid Tebboune
(retranslated): Let me express my deep satisfaction with this meeting. Thank you very much for your hospitality. This is evidence of the depth of friendship that exists between Algeria and the Russian Federation.
Our relations have never changed for the past 60 years, with Algeria always supporting Russia. Today, foreign states may bring pressure to bear on us, but this can never affect our relations.
First, we should preserve our independence, and this is possible thanks to support from the Russian Federation that supplies us with weapons so that we can preserve our independence in this challenging environment.
We should exchange views under all circumstances. We should always be in contact and address all items of interest.
Before we get to a detailed discussion of all these matters, let me congratulate you on your national holiday, Russian Federation Day, June 12.
As for the main items that we must address, Russia, as you know, has always helped Algeria, and now we are a member of the UN Security Council – thanks to the friendly Russian Federation.
We have almost agreed – even before we started the talks – on all items related to the international situation, a very tense situation, as you know. It is necessary to accelerate the process of Algeria joining the BRICS group so that we no longer accept dollars and euros. This will be to Algeria’s benefit. God grant!
As for the geopolitical situation and relations, we must touch on the Libya issue. Libya is a friend to Russia and Algeria, and therefore we are always eager for stability in that country.
Where the Sahel region is concerned, we support relations between Mali and the Russian Federation. Mali neighbours our country. We should negotiate and discuss all issues under any circumstances. We have an instrument known as the Algiers Agreement.
<…>
Geography
Algeria
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Tebboune Abdelmadjid
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 15, 2023, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency Veronika Skvortsova
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Head of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency (FMBA) Veronika Skvortsova.
June 15, 2023
00:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting with Head of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency Veronika Skvortsova.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Ms Skvortsova.
Let's start with the situation around the Kakhovka Hydroelectric Power Plant.
Head of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency Veronika Skvortsova
: Mr President, the FMBA has been actively involved in the special military operation, alongside the Defence Ministry, since February 2022. Our combined detachments have been deployed in the Belgorod Region, including Shebekino and Valuyki, as well as the Rostov Region and in northern Crimea, in Krasnoperekopsk.
Over this entire period, we have treated more than 51,000 people in total, and more than 5,600 children. Our teams continue to operate; as many as 800 employees have taken part during this period.
Since June 1, by order of the Government, we have taken over the medical and sanitary-epidemiological support of Energodar and the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant and the organisations operating the power plant.
On June 1, we opened our territorial unit there and a hygiene and epidemiology centre – a branch of our Novovoronezh Centre for Hygiene and Epidemiology. We have opened an emergency radiation-monitoring and medical centre, a mobile medical and radiation-monitoring unit, and taskforces that can help the victims in case of emergency. We have integrated a large local medical sanitary unit, and it became a branch of our southern district centre.
It is also important to note that, because we started routine medical checks in Energodar in December [2022], examining both the children and adult population, we got to know the team and became familiar with the problems on the ground. And this helped us to actually keep the entire team on board: all 540 employees were hired, plus those employees who came from other FMBA centres.
We have purchased new equipment worth of 230 million rubles, which has already been delivered: the local surgical, anaesthesiology, laboratory, technical and other services have been fully re-equipped. We have replaced the vehicle fleet. The team has revived, and in fact, we have accepted them into the FMBA family.
We work well together. All radiation risks are being monitored. Everything is calm: there are no radiation peaks, and the situation is under control.
Following the collapse of the Kakhovka dam on June 6, Mr Saldo
appealed to the FMBA in the evening of June 9 to send an interservice medical team to them. We have sent such a team made up of four groups from our departments in Rostov, Starobeshevo (Donetsk People’s Republic), Yalta and Krasnoperekopsk. On June 12, it arrived in the area called Zhelezny Port, where 11 temporary accommodation centres with 1,500 people are located. There are about 1,000 people in the city itself, more than 900 adults and about 100 children.
The team includes 30 specialists: two surgical groups, two intensive care groups, a primary care doctor, a paediatrician, a trauma specialist, a mobile microbiology group of five epidemiologists and laboratory assistants, a group of psychologists and nursing professionals. They advanced in a convoy of 10 specialised vehicles: a rapid response group, a mobile surgery, an intensive care vehicle, dressing units, a mobile microbiology laboratory, critical care vans and ambulances.
They arrived at the destination and started working on June 12. It must be said that the demand for medical assistance is huge: over the first two days, 600 of the 1,000 people and 60 of the 100 children there requested medical assistance. The team is working round the clock. We have split it into two groups, which provide primary surgical assistance, dressings, treatment of chronic diseases, and emergency care.
The epidemiological group has started working as well. They collected samples from the public water supply system, because people drink bottled water but use the public water system to clean their teeth. We completed the seed process yesterday, and the initial result is that, thankfully, there are no pathological substances.
Nevertheless, the team took not only medicines and dressing materials with them but also a large number of Hepatitis A, dysentery and typhoid vaccines, as well as the specialised Intesti bacteriophage for the treatment of all types of intestinal infectious diseases. We began the vaccination today. Over the past two days, we came to the conclusion that the team should be reinforced. Tomorrow we will send one more vehicle with vaccines to prevent potential shortages.
Besides, there is no clinical laboratory service there, which is why we will send a mobile laboratory service and specialists who will take clinical biochemistry tests. We have diagnosed several tuberculosis cases, and so we will also send a mobile screening van with specialists.
Vladimir Putin: Are these cases connected with the flooding or did you diagnose them during a screening?
Veronika Skvortsova: No, we diagnosed them during the screening. But since people are living in cramped quarters in the temporary shelters, we must prevent potential risks.
Vladimir Putin: The risks are increasing.
Veronika Skvortsova: Besides, we need more psychologists there, as we have concluded. The second section of the group will arrive on Friday.
Overall, the situation is under control. The team has an experienced leader, who worked in Starobeshevo, Donetsk People’s Republic, for six months. He is a competent doctor and, actually, a member of the FMBA staff. He knows how to speak with the people and has developed a good rapport with them.
In addition to this, I would like to report on your instruction. We have been building a multi-purpose high-technology centre in Mariupol together with the Defence Ministry since December 2022. It will serve not only the Donetsk People’s Republic, but other new regions too, as well as the nearby regions of the Russian Federation. It is currently 74 percent complete, even though construction started in December.
Only recently, I visited both Energodar and Mariupol, where I had a meeting with the construction team. Everything will be ready in August. We purchased the equipment, with 90 percent made in Russia, and very high quality too. The remaining 10 percent comes from Belarus and the People’s Republic of China. The installation of the heavy equipment will begin on June 15, and we will complete this effort by December 1.
This will be the first stage, which includes a diagnostics and treatment building, eleven operating suites, a sophisticated intensive care unit, an angiographic endovascular operating suite, and a diagnostics clinic, with 60 beds for overnight stays and 20 daycare beds.
The second stage will begin next year. It will include a building with 333 additional beds. We hope that this centre will open in December. We would like to invite you there, and we will be happy to see you, Mr President, if you have an opportunity to visit.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I saw it from the outside when I visited Mariupol. I did not go inside, but the project was at an advanced stage, about 60 percent ready, I think.
Veronika Skvortsova: It is now 74 percent ready. Let me show you. This is what it looks like now.
Vladimir Putin: This is a big facility.
Veronika Skvortsova: Indeed, it is 36,000 square metres. We will add another 26,000 square metres next year. This is a major centre that will employ a big workforce. We have already recruited the core employees, and engineers and maintenance personnel are already working there. For stage one, there will be 170 medics, but we will need several times this number when we reach stage two.
We are now working with all the new regions of the Russian Federation and are ready to offer professional training to all interested medical professionals. Some of them need this training, and maybe there are also those who do not. Anyway, we are always glad to recruit them. This will work.
Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to say that while all this has been going on, in 2022, our research team developed several novel antidotes against toxic agents, new radioprotective drugs and several treatments targeting specific symptoms for the radiation, biological and chemical protection troops. All these products come in user-friendly formats, including pre-filled syringes or can be quickly administered orally. In fact, we prepared a new layout, as requested by the Defence Ministry. It is ready and provides a convenient solution containing all the key medicines, including those against chemical and radiation hazards.
We continue developing new products and have already developed two new universal antidotes against toxic pulmonary oedema and toxic seizures. Clinical trials are getting underway. So here too, the agency is doing everything to help our troops.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Lugansk People’s Republic
Zaporozhye Region
Donetsk People’s Republic
Kherson Region
Topics
Healthcare
Regions
Persons
Skvortsova Veronika
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 15, 2023, 00:20
Text version