Events
Conversation with participants in the ceremony marking Heroes of the Fatherland Day
After the ceremony to present Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia, marking Heroes of the Fatherland Day, the President talked to its participants.
December 8, 2023
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 14
Conversation with participants in the ceremony marking Heroes of the Fatherland Day.
Artyom Zhoga: Mr President, you have done so much for our Donbass.
The Federation Council has set the date for the presidential election in the Russian Federation. On behalf of our people, of Donbass as a whole and our reunified lands, I would like to ask you to take part in this election. After all, there is so much work that needs to be done.
It is thanks to your actions and your decision that we have obtained our freedom and the right to choose. We want to take part in the election of President of the Russian Federation, and you are our President. There is so much work ahead of us in terms of integration into the social fabric, as well as in economic terms, and also in terms of the way we live our everyday lives as civilians. We would like to do this under your leadership.
You are our President, and we are your team. We need you, and Russia needs you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much. Make no mistake, I had all kinds of thoughts on this matter at different times. However, you are right – the time to decide has come. I will run for President of the Russian Federation.
Sapizhat Mazayeva: Mr President, as the mother of the First Hero [of Russia, a participant in the special military operation], and a primary school teacher for 25 years, I know that heroes are brought up not by family alone. Teachers also make a big contribution to their upbringing. If they start working on this at school, if they instill these values in children – love for the Motherland, patriotism and a desire to work – our boys and girls will become heroes.
We need to continue this work. I support Artyom Zhoga’s idea – you must stand in the upcoming election. You are our President. We are your team.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Viktor Polyakov: We must go forward. We stand for you. We are with you. We are asking you to go ahead. Russia needs you, the manufacturing sector needs you. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Maria Kostyuk: As a mother, I would like to thank you for the memory of our sons on behalf of fathers, mothers and widows who are present here. Thank you for thinking about our dead boys and truly appreciating their achievements – and we see this – for the sake of our Fatherland. We are grateful to you for this opportunity, a really unique opportunity to be here and attend this historical event. You have succeeded in restoring the great glory of our Fatherland. And today you are presenting our boys, our great warriors our highest state award. We share the feeling of happiness for them with their parents and the whole country, and we are praying for them.
Our boys are performing their military duty on the frontline. We understand this and we are performing our civilian duty on the home front. Our boys have not left the front and will not do this. So, you should not leave us either. We are here at this meeting and I feel proud: Hero Of Russia, Hero of the Soviet Union, Order of Courage, Hero of Labour, the parents of our dead heroes. We are all here and everything is clear – we are your front, we are with you, we are for you, we are at one with you.
I will repeat what our boys are saying today: You are our President. You are our Commander-in-Chief.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Maria Kostyuk: Today we have to do a lot for our Russia, but we need to do even more, to continue what our sons are doing. And we are marching together with you, and we must continue to stand by your side.
But why am I talking? I think these men from the front line can say more (Addressing Yury Mizerny.) Yermak here… God forgive me, Yury – I am using their call signs.
Yury Mizerny: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief, allow me to relay the words from the men who are now on the front line. The guys there were concerned – before you said it just now – if you would run for reelection or not. So, they asked me to tell you, Mr President, that they want you to stay with us, because together we are strong, and with you, we will win. You are our President.
Vladimir Putin: We will be together.
Maryana Lysenko: Mr President, I know so well what the soldiers mean and why they need you so much now – only recently, we have taken a long and challenging path together, in medicine, and we did it with you. You were one of the first to walk into the red zone. You supported us with whatever we needed, and we felt an extraordinary amount of support and a truly human concern. And that was very important. That is why we won that battle on our small front. And not because the pandemic is over, but because our results are incomparable with global or European results, or any other results.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, we know that.
Maryana Lysenko: Your personal involvement was very important, even essential. In healthcare and medicine, we still have goals and objectives that we must work towards with you.
Vladimir Putin: In medicine, we cannot do without you. Your contribution is crucial in industry, and on the battlefield…
Remark: Rosatom miners and people in the Trans-Baikal Territory want you to know that we are always with you, we believe in you, and we are proud that we have such a President. We are in this together.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. I would like to say again that I used to have second thoughts on this matter, but I realise that today, as I said, there is no other way.
Remark: We hope so.
Vladimir Putin: I will run for reelection as President of Russia. And thank you for these words, especially in this context, especially today.
Artyom Zhoga: The recently reunited territories will participate in a Russian election for the first time, and we will vote for you.
See also
Presentation of Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia
December 8, 2023
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2023, 15:00
Text versionEvents
Presentation of Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia
On the eve of Heroes of the Fatherland Day, the ceremony to present Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia took place in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s St George Hall.
December 8, 2023
13:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 19
Presentation of Gold Star medals to Heroes of Russia. Photo: Valery Sharifulin, TASS
Over 200 military personnel and civilians who demonstrated special courage and heroism attended the event, including Heroes of the Soviet Union, Heroes of the Russian Federation, holders of the Order of St George, and those awarded three or more Orders of Courage.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, comrades, friends, today we honour the Heroes of the Fatherland here at the Kremlin’s St George Hall, which symbolises Russia’s military and battlefield greatness and glory. The outstanding feats, accomplishments and deeds of these heroes will remain forever in the annals of our state, our homeland.
The fabric of popular memory is impermeable to time. We have been passing on from one generation to another the feeling of gratitude to our heroes and their courage and revered those who stood up to defend the freedom and independence of our Fatherland. We honour the hard work and talent of the great researchers, trailblazers, administrators, and cultural figures who contributed to Russia’s glory. Knowing and honouring heroes is our duty. We must do everything to make sure that we carry on with the goals they pursued and the ideals they had, using them as a foundation for shaping our future.
The soldiers and officers, the fighters participating in the special military operation, including very young people, possess the same strong will and character as all the defenders of the Fatherland in the past centuries.
Their remarkable heroism is a source of great pride for our country. It is a great honour for me to present them with the Gold Star medals of Hero of Russia today. They come from different parts of the country, from Karelia to the Primorye Territory, and from different ethnic groups. But they stand together side by side in defence of our shared, united Motherland.
They demonstrated remarkable bravery and courage as members of assault groups. Commanders, some of whom are very young people, led their men by personal example, sometimes despite wounds, destroying enemy tanks and other armoured vehicles and artillery systems, including Western-made ones, thereby dispelling the myth of their invincibility.
Many of those who have received state decorations effectively used modern technologies and drones to execute their combat tasks, while others risked their lives to save and evacuate the wounded.
All those who have received state decorations today exhibited extraordinary heroism. Thank you for your dedicated service to the Motherland.
You, your comrades-in-arms and all heroes of our country uphold honour, duty and selfless love for the Fatherland above all else. These values are paramount today, setting the highest standard of responsibility for each of us. And the selflessness and courage demonstrated by our fighters serve as examples to be emulated by workers and engineers at our defence enterprises, by the personnel of other economic sectors, who have not only risen to meet the challenges of sanctions but are increasing production, as well as by all our citizens, who are contributing to the strengthening of Russia’s economic, technological and cultural sovereignty. Your courage serves as inspiration for volunteers, who are supporting the front, and for all those who are eager to act for the benefit of the Fatherland.
Millions of Russian citizens are resolved to stand together with the country and to act honestly in the face of adversity. I know this. I can see this during meetings with our people. I can feel their mood of solidarity.
Today, combat heroism and labour valour, the strong will of our people and the unity of Russian society intertwine and complement each other. And all of us are united by our sincere and heartfelt love for Russia. It helps us to move forward, to do more and to overcome all obstacles.
I have no doubt that we will certainly achieve all the goals we have set for ourselves, and that we will be able to tell our children and grandchildren that we and our comrades-in-arms did this for them, that we lived, worked and fought for their future. And they will be proud of us.
Congratulations on Heroes of the Fatherland Day!
<…>
Eduard Kazymov: Comrade President of the Russian Federation,
Dear guests,
I would like to thank you for this high award. This is a recognition not only for me, but for our entire unit.
I would like to share with you a message from our men on the frontline: “We believe in victory and will not retreat. We will stand our ground until the end.” Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Dear friends, we can see that our heroes do not talk all that much, but they have shown their value on the battlefield. Their actions, and what they do, speak for themselves.
I would like to congratulate you on receiving these decorations. You deserved to become Heroes of Russia. Please pass on my best wishes to your comrades in your divisions. The whole country is watching you, places its hopes in you and congratulates you on today’s decorations, and not just today during this ceremony, but every day.
Happy Heroes of the Fatherland Day!
Topics
Armed Forces
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 8, 2023, 13:50
Text version