Events
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov
Vladimir Putin met in the Kremlin with President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov, who is in Russia on an official visit.
May 8, 2023
16:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 4
Meeting with President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov. Photo: Mikhail Metzel, TASS
The two leaders discussed the current state of and prospects for developing bilateral cooperation, interaction within integration associations, as well as regional and international issues.
Following the talks, the two leaders adopted a joint statement on deepening relations of strategic partnership and alliance.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Japarov, friends, colleagues,
We are very pleased to see you in Moscow, all the more so since you have come just ahead of Victory Day. It is symbolic that you are with us at this time.
We know very well and remember that 360,000 Kyrgyzstanis went to fight on the frontlines, and a little less than half, I believe, 134 000, did not return.
I know that you have been to Rzhev with the State Duma Speaker where you laid flowers and honoured the memory of those who fell and who fought on this part of the frontline.
As for our current relations, they are on the rise. Our trade increased 37 percent last year. Russia is Kyrgyzstan’s biggest investor, ranking first in terms of direct investment. I am confident that this trend will continue to gather momentum.
I am pleased to have this opportunity to begin our working meeting and discussion in this expanded format. Once again, we are very pleased to see you.
Happy Victory Day! Welcome!
President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov
: Thank you, Mr President.
I am very grateful to you for your invitation to come to the Russian Federation on an official visit. Thank you for your warm welcome.
I am very pleased that we are meeting in Moscow in the lead-up to the celebrations for the 78th anniversary of the Great Victory. We will never forget the heroism of our fathers and grandfathers, who endured the hardships of war to secure freedom for future generations. Their memory will stay forever in our hearts.
Mr President, we have a very good opportunity today to discuss topical issues of bilateral cooperation. I hope we will exchange views on further developing the Kyrgyz-Russian strategic partnership and alliance in the interests of both countries.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Mr Japarov, may I suggest the following structure of our meeting: first, we will give the floor to our colleagues, the co-chairs of the government commission, listen to them and then go industry by industry. After that, we will have a face-to-face meeting.
Sadyr Japarov: Ok, let’s do it that way.
Vladimir Putin: Very good, then.
<…>
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Japarov Sadyr
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 8, 2023, 16:50
Text version