Events
Meeting with Acting Head of the Donetsk People’s Republic Denis Pushilin
The President held a working meeting with Acting Head of the Donetsk People’s Republic Denis Pushilin.
August 24, 2023
18:55
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With Acting Head of the Donetsk People’s Republic Denis Pushilin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Pushilin, good afternoon.
Acting Head of the Donetsk People’s Republic Denis Pushilin
: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: How are things, Mr Pushilin?
Denis Pushilin: Mr President, everything is under control. Things are complicated, difficult, and tense, but under control.
I would like to report on the situation. The first thing that is of most concern to us, the pulse that we need to keep our finger on, is, of course, the situation with shelling. Unfortunately, over the past three summer months, it has worsened for civilians, because the enemy is now using cluster munitions.
Vladimir Putin: Against civilian targets as well.
Denis Pushilin: It is especially dangerous for civilians. Why? Because cluster munitions are quite wide reaching and cause uncontrolled damage, because people are not quite sure how to respond to them. Moreover, not all cluster munitions detonate immediately and just lie around. Just recently, several construction workers were killed on their way to work when one of them found a cluster and brought it to show to his co-workers. It went off just as he was showing it. Three people were killed, three more were wounded. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated incident.
In fact, civilian facilities were the ones that suffered in the recent shelling incidents, including an ambulance station and a blood transfusion centre. All this causes a lot of pain, of course, primarily affecting civilians. In these cases, those who decided to supply cluster munitions in defiance of common sense and contradicting their own statements, these people become accomplices. You have heard the Americans opposing the use of cluster munitions, but now they say that it is all right with them. Overall, to give you the numbers, the number of shelling incidents increased by 23 percent during the summer months compared to the preceding three-month period, with cluster munitions used in 10 percent of these strikes. This is what I wanted to say about civilians.
Still, the men on the frontlines remain in high spirits and are ready to carry on fighting. They all understand very well and can see what is going on. They understand their mission, which consists of pushing the adversary as far back as possible. This is the only way to stop shells from reaching our cities and districts.
Most of the hotspots have been concentrated around the South Donetsk front along the Urozhainoye-Staromayorskoye line. The enemy attacks are unrelenting here with the enemy trying to gain a foothold in these areas, but our men have been doing everything they can to prevent this, and even more. Joint units have been effective in working together. Along the flanks, the Artyomovsk front is another hotspot. But I can say, if cautiously, that the situation is becoming more stable there too.
Since I mentioned Artyomovsk, I learned the distressing news about Yevgeny Prigozhin’s death yesterday as I was heading here. This is a sensitive topic for us, since there were also his men from Wagner Group who lost their lives. They were the ones who took part in liberating Artyomovsk… Of course, this situation caused a lot of anxiety and compassion among us. Unfortunately, we do understand what is going on right now and what kind of an enemy we are dealing with. We also understand that the adversary is ready to pull all the stops.
Vladimir Putin: Regarding the plane crash, first, I would like to express my sincere condolences to the families of all the victims. It is always a tragedy when it happens. Indeed, if Wagner members were on board, since this is what we know judging by preliminary reports, I must say that these people made a meaningful contribution to our common cause to fight the neo-Nazi regime in Ukraine. We remember this, we know this, and will never forget.
I knew Prigozhin for a long time, since the early 1990s. He was a man of a difficult fate and made some serious mistakes in his life, but he also achieved the necessary results for himself and also for the greater good when I asked him, as it happened over the past months.
He was a talented man, a gifted business leader who worked in and outside our country, including in Africa, and was quite effective at that. He worked with oil, gas, precious metals and gemstones there. As far as I know, only yesterday he returned from Africa and had meetings with several officials.
What I can tell you for sure, as the head of the Investigative Committee reported to me this morning, a preliminary investigation into this incident has been launched. It will run its full course. There must be no doubt about that. Let us wait a little and see what the investigators tell us.
A technical expertise and genetic tests are currently underway. This will take some time.
Denis Pushilin: I have no doubt that specialists will get to the bottom of this case. This is something that matters for all of us.
Mr President, I would like to briefly report on your previous instructions and requests.
Water supply. We know how challenging the shortage of water has been, caused by the Kiev regime’s water blockade in the Donetsk People’s Republic. The first leg of a new water pipeline is finished. Now it has become possible to increase the number of hours when water is supplied. Water is still provided according to a schedule but progress has been made.
It would not be true to say that the problem has been resolved everywhere in the republic. However, in some areas, we have been able to change the water supply schedule. Where it used to be provided once every three days, it is now provided once every two days. We are trying to make sure that water is available daily, even if for limited hours. Due to the fact that some segments of the water supply network are almost 90 percent worn down, there are areas where we have not been able to make progress.
Utilities services and relevant ministries continue to work hard to turn the situation around and to prevent the loss of water, which sometimes reaches 60 percent. Losing 60 percent of supplies when there is a critical shortage is, of course, unacceptable.
We are starting to prepare for the heating season and there are many contingent issues. We believe that subsequently, when the second leg of the water pipeline is finished, we will be able to bridge the deficit, until the territories of the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Seversky Donets Canal are fully liberated. Then we will be able to close this matter.
Now, the sensitive issue we have discussed many times: queues at checkpoints. I can tell you that we can see a big difference thanks to the recent measures such as increasing the number of checkpoint facilities, and building new and repairing existing roads. There are occasional bottlenecks but competent services deal with the problem very quickly.
The recent situation with the Crimean Bridge, when vehicles had to take a detour via the land-based corridor, was a certain test for us. We managed to relieve the traffic congestion in less than 24 hours. Ministries, law enforcement and security agencies demonstrated their high professionalism. The National Guard acted impeccably. We work with volunteers from youth organisations and they immediately came to our assistance. The congestion was quickly relieved also thanks to creating park-and-ride facilities. We were ready for that challenge.
(Denis Pushilin also spoke about the operation of the migration service that managed to shorten the waiting time of passport applicants, as well as opening multi-purpose public services centres and recalculating retirement benefits upwards.)
Vladimir Putin: September 1 is near.
Denis Pushilin: Yes, September 1 is an extremely important issue for us. I showed you the presentation. Many schools have been repaired by the patron regions, or the Ministry of Construction. I showed you the way it used to be and what schools look now as we get closer to September 1.
We have never seen such good schools in many respects. Even if we leave out the school in Nevsky, which is open now and is fantastic, everyone who goes there says this.
Vladimir Putin: Is the St Petersburg Deputy Governor working on that?
Denis Pushilin: These are military builders, the ones that built the Nevsky district. In general, the contractors working with the Ministry of Construction and VSK are setting records everywhere, in terms of quality as well. Everything they do is done the way they would do it for themselves: there is everything for everyone. We are now beginning to realise what Russian standards are like. And our teachers look at this and realise what it means to take care of people first, both teachers and students. This commands a lot of respect.
Of course, it is painful for us that schools have remote learning. We have had remote learning for a very long time: the pandemic year, and then the special military operation. There are a lot of requests from parents, because the children are not getting what they need, their studies are not the same. They should be full-time.
By September 1, we plan to almost double the number of schools that will work full-time bringing it to 72 percent. At the same time, parents will have the opportunity to choose what they want, for example, if they are worried, because now, unfortunately, shells can come from anywhere. Safety must come first here. Parents make their own decisions. We provide security to the best of our ability.
Of course, schools in the most frequently shelled areas will continue to operate remotely. This includes schools in Gorlovka, some areas of Donetsk, Makeyevka and Yasinovataya: of course, there will be remote learning. Where there is a rear, where there is an opportunity to ensure security to some extent, there will be full-time learning. For us, it is very important.
We will have 130–147 schools repaired by the end of the year, as well as 122 preschools and five colleges. It is a very high level for us.
As far as healthcare is concerned, I want to thank you. Parents are still grateful that the medical check-ups of children was carried out: many diseases were detected in the early stages, which made it possible for doctors to step in very quickly.
Vladimir Putin: Now, after the medical check-ups, it is very important to outline a work plan for children in need of additional medical care.
Denis Pushilin: Yes, this work is underway. But now the most important thing is that adults are also beginning to undergo medical check-ups.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I know.
Denis Pushilin: Thank you very much for this decision.
The biggest problem in healthcare is, of course, the lack of human resources. We have personnel shortages of over 50 percent. Since the launch of the special military operation, about 1,700 healthcare workers [from Russian regions] have worked in the republic as volunteers, providing continuous professional medical aid to residents of the Donetsk People’s Republic on a rotation basis. These efforts deserve great respect and we are very grateful. Our patron regions are deeply involved in our problems and try to offer professional support in some cases. I feel nothing but gratitude.
Vladimir Putin: They help with equipment, material supplies and personnel training, of course. The republic should join the national training and professional development programme for healthcare workers.
Denis Pushilin: We never saw this amount of equipment supplies and material support in the past. We have received an incredible amount of equipment, devices and other supplies that make a great difference. We did not have so many MRI and x-ray machines before. And they are all modern. Our medics are very grateful.
Now all we need to do is to create proper training conditions. We have a very good medical university that was among the first to obtain accreditation. Now it is important to retain young professionals in the region.
Vladimir Putin: Are you preparing for the elections?
Denis Pushilin: Of course, Mr President. Just yesterday, we approved our election programme, developed a strategy and outlined our plans. Local parties are quite active. I believe we are ready. Certainly, we are concerned about security. But we have built a system with local security forces. We have a situation centre for regular meetings. I think the general approach is very smart. There are no problems with the Central Election Commission either. We make sure to comply with all the recommendations and requirements according to Russian law. It is another test for us. With your blessing, we are ready to do our best for the people.
Vladimir Putin: Sounds good.
<…>
Geography
Donetsk People’s Republic
Topics
Regions
Persons
Pushilin Denis
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2023, 18:55
Text versionEvents
BRICS leaders made media statements
At the 15th BRICS Summit, held in Johannesburg, heads of state from this interstate association made statements for the media.
August 24, 2023
11:15
BRICS countries adopted the Second Johannesburg Declaration following their summit.
* * *
Media statement by the President of Russia at the BRICS Summit
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President [Cyril Ramaphosa], friends, colleagues,
I would like to join the other participants in today’s event in thanking our South African friends for their contribution to our joint efforts, primarily in terms of coordinating the declaration.
I must point out that this was quite a challenging task, as it turns out, and President Ramaphosa has demonstrated outstanding diplomatic agility and skill in coordinating all the positions, including those dealing with the BRICS expansion.
Our Brazilian colleague, President Lula da Silva, has just highlighted several issues that matter the most for all of us. I believe that a single settlement currency definitely deserves our attention. This is a complex issue but we have to move towards resolving it in one way or another. The second issue deals with carrying out economic transactions between our countries.
I would like to congratulate the countries joining BRICS which will be able to fully contribute to its work effective next year. I want to assure all of my colleagues that we will continue the initiative we started today, to expand the influence of BRICS in the world, by establishing practical cooperation with new members and with the parties collaborating with us in the outreach format, as well as with our partners who assign importance to cooperation with BRICS and would like to work with us.
We have been treating this matter with a lot of attention and respect and will undoubtedly embark on this effort, while maintaining contacts with all of our partners and seeking their advice on ways to proceed with this undertaking. We will devise regulations during our joint discussions at the level of foreign ministers, other agencies in order to ensure that the global role and standing of BRICS keeps growing.
Thank you very much.
See also
BRICS leaders’ extended format meeting
August 23, 2023
Video Address to the Participants in the BRICS Business Forum
August 22, 2023
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2023, 11:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Acting Governor of the Kherson Region Vladimir Saldo
The President met with Acting Governor of the Kherson Region Vladimir Saldo at the Kremlin.
August 24, 2023
20:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
Acting Governor of the Kherson Region Vladimir Saldo.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: What shall we start with, Mr Saldo?
Acting Governor of the Kherson Region Vladimir Saldo
: I will first report on our work.
Yesterday, we had a working group meeting chaired by Mr Marat Khusnullin. We discussed the final efforts on disaster recovery after the Kakhovka Dam failure. This was a despicable act by the Kiev authorities. They knew this would not give them any military advantages, but they did it anyway.
Mr President, in just two months, regional and local agencies and departments, without exception, have basically managed to mitigate the consequences of this enormous disaster through their concerted efforts. All this was done in the lower reaches of the Dnieper. There are 17 villages in the 15 kilometre zone along the Dnieper where the river flows in its natural bed. Absolutely everything has been restored – electricity and gas distribution, roads that were washed away, and communications. As a result, people have started coming home.
Vladimir Putin: God willing.
 Mr Saldo, you must certainly consider each family’s case. I would like to ask you to take an individualised approach, because each specific case – I have seen this many times in emergency situations – each specific case has its own nuances.
Vladimir Saldo: I agree. People have received more than 300 million rubles in aid, including 10,000-ruble payments, 50,000, and 100,000-ruble payments depending on the amount of damage.
Mr President, when this happened, people went into a state of shock at first, but then, thanks to this work, to this help, we felt a strong shoulder, the support of a strong family, and people simply waited for the water to subside, and began to return to the area and restore their homes themselves. This disaster rallied us together even more, and we became even more confident that Russia is a great country that leaves no one behind.
Therefore, thanks to you keeping this under review – you never stopped calling, asking, and checking – thanks to the well-coordinated work and absolutely everyone’s involvement, the entire Presidential Executive Office was very dedicated.
Finally, a decision was made yesterday to lift the state of emergency. The status of a local emergency remains – it was at the federal level until recently, and now it is a local emergency; we will keep it in a 15-kilometre zone. In general, the work is done. Thank you so much.
Vladimir Putin: We need to help the people rebuild their homes, because all right, the money is good, but there are other issues when it comes to building materials, transport, and a lot of things. There are probably a lot of questions about the documents.
Vladimir Saldo: Many documents were lost.
Vladimir Putin: That is what I am saying. Therefore, you just need to carefully approach each case, each family.
Vladimir Saldo: Thank you.
People send you their regards. Whenever I visit, or go outside, the first thing I hear is words of support. No one asks for anything. We will manage, they say, just give us the materials.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I know.
Vladimir Saldo: We lost 57 people who drowned. Fifty-seven deaths. The others were found, but the disaster still claimed 57 lives.
Vladimir Putin: It is imperative to help the families of the victims.
Vladimir Saldo: Yes. According to your executive order, we are authorised to provide assistance to the families of the deceased.
Vladimir Putin: You just make sure that the money reaches the recipients, because there are a lot of executive orders, but they do not always work.
What happened with the station?
Vladimir Saldo: Right now, it is almost too painful to look at, I must admit, and I know it pains you, too – you called immediately, in the first days, on June 6, when it happened.
The power station is as good as wiped out, and the dam is washed out. But from an engineering perspective, it is repairable, like everything else, but obviously, rebuilding it will not be possible until after the cessation of active hostilities. As it is, the shelling continues, and the other side behaves in the most brazen way: small FPV drones drop grenades even on cars.
But they can be dealt with now – our military as well as the services whose job it is to deal with them have already found an antidote. The simplest solutions work sometimes, and the people are savvy – both the military and paramilitary units. We have the Margelov volunteer battalion – the command praises what they do – so, they have found how to deal with these drones: when they fly lower, they can be simply shot down with ordinary small arms, like a hunting rifle.
We have a problem to solve that is going to be a real challenge in eight to nine months. When the water level lowered, the Dnieper returned within its banks. Over the years that the Kakhovskya dam was operating, there was the Kakhovka reservoir, and most of the villages and towns upstream from the dam used the water available due to a higher level of underground waters. There is also the land reclamation system, and it remained intact.
Today, there is still water in the Kakhovka and North Crimean canals, and this water is being used to supply the communities. But, according to estimates, there is only enough water for eight months.
Land surveying is being carried out, and temporary options are being explored. Anyway, all the structures will be rebuilt eventually, but before they are, we are exploring the possibilities of extracting water from other layers. Geologists are working, looking for options to drill wells, transfer the water and supply the communities.
Therefore, I have one request. May I?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course.
Vladimir Saldo: A plan for the socioeconomic development of the Kherson Region was approved last spring, and there is also a federal project, Clean Water, which includes this work. But because the situation is… You know about the world-famous Askania-Nova Nature Reserve, with the Institute of Animal Husbandry, and the village of Askania-Nova, about 6,000 people. A water supply system was built there a long time ago using asbestos-cement pipes and couplings. Those materials are no longer allowed for use under the modern SNiP construction standard. It is all overgrown, and we are trying to repair it now, but it is too difficult.
My request is to speed up this process. The costs are reasonable, and I spoke with Mr Marat Khusnullin. I have asked to speed up the process so that it can be done this year.
Vladimir Putin: All right, we will look at it.
Excuse me, what is this map you have?
Vladimir Saldo: I would like to move on to long-term planning.
Considering that the grain deal is not working right now, we propose reviving the trade route we used back when I served as mayor of Kherson. In 2007, we connected Skadovsky, a Black Sea port, to Zonguldak, Turkiye, and on to Istanbul using a ferry crossing. Over 1,200 foreign ships entered this port.
These ferries took heavy trucks with TIR Carnets on board. The only other option for these trucks was to drive all the way around the Black Sea, but this way they were only 295 miles away from Zonguldak.
Zonguldak is Kherson’s twin city. In fact, this is the only city in Turkiye that produces hard coal. It has mines, and there is a port there too.
If we revive this ferry crossing and make it operational, this will give us new trade routes we never had before, since the crossing takes very little time, just 20 hours. I have used this ferry line to sail across the Black Sea and visit Zonguldak. This way, we can use the roads you can see here to cover this section…
By the way, I am proud to report that we have already harvested 1.5 million tonnes of grain.
Vladimir Putin: That is a lot.
Vladimir Saldo: The soil yields its fruit one way or another, but you must deliver them somewhere. This is a direct route I wanted to show you ahead of your meeting with the President of Turkiye, so that you can raise this topic with him.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
Vladimir Saldo: This proposal covers much more than just about our region.
Vladimir Putin: I see. It has a regional dimension. What do we have here on the map?
Vladimir Saldo: This is the second part of my development proposal. What you see here is the Arabat Spit. We started building office buildings and other structures there in keeping with your instructions.
Almost all the buildings there are nearing completion. The only problem is that when we embarked on this effort, this territory was not exposed to missile strikes. Now there are the Storm Shadow missiles which can reach this area, and we have already had incoming strikes.
What do we suggest? Our proposal is to build a road along the Arabat Spit. After all, it links us to Crimea, which is 130 kilometres away if you follow the spit.
A company came forward with a proposal to build the road without using any state funds by launching a concession under Federal Constitutional Law 105. We suggest supporting their bid, since they are not asking for any budget allocations.
Vladimir Putin: Of course, we must review the environmental impact.
Vladimir Saldo: We have already done that. There is already a road there all the way up to Strelkovoye, but the spit then becomes too narrow, and all this sand, so we use the mainland road.
Vladimir Putin: The road is already there, so it is a question of bringing it up to standard.
Vladimir Saldo: Yes.
The military use it right now, and I will tell you how we work with them later.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Vladimir Saldo: I also have this letter and ask for your support.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
Vladimir Saldo: There is also a recreational zone within the cluster. We will develop it.
A few words about the elections.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course.
Vladimir Saldo: Yes, a few words about the elections. Preparations are in progress for the electoral process itself. Once again, Mr President, support for [your candidacy] is growing. It dropped somewhat after all these events, but now people have become convinced and our people generally believe the leadership and think that strength and firmness are a guarantee of success in the future. We cannot but rejoice at the courage with which they are taking all this.
Vladimir Putin: Absolutely.
Vladimir Saldo: This is why preparations for the elections are in high gear. The level of trust is high, very high – in United Russia, too. Let me convey particular thanks to the biggest political party which has not missed a single day, I stress, not a single day after the liberation of the Kherson Region, bringing in water and helping ordinary people. They have created humanitarian centres. There are volunteers practically everywhere, their eyes sparkling, because they want to help people so much. They want to be involved in a process of historic importance, and not for show but for real.
This is why we are ready for the elections. The mobile voter system is a new approach that makes it possible even for those who are not at home to register and vote in any part of the Russian Federation.
I used it myself, registering two days ago. I live in Kherson, I am registered in Kherson, but I now live in the Kherson Region, not in the city. So, I have registered and have the right to vote. Therefore, I want to use this occasion and thank you because everything is forging ahead and developing.
Vladimir Putin: I want to wish you success in implementing your passive and active electoral rights.
Vladimir Saldo: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: You work pro-actively in every way. But you should contact people directly when it comes to solving problems. I am sure that they will support you.
Vladimir Saldo: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Kherson Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Saldo Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2023, 20:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting in the BRICS Plus/Outreach format
Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in the BRICS Plus/Outreach format meeting.
August 24, 2023
12:40
3 of 5
Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in the BRICS Plus/Outreach format meeting.
Held as part of the 15th BRICS Summit in Johannesburg, South Africa, the meeting brought together the leaders of more than 50 countries from around the world and senior executives of regional organisations.
BRICS countries adopted the Second Johannesburg Declaration following their summit.
* * *
Address by the President of Russia at the BRICS Plus/Outreach format meeting
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Ramaphosa, heads of state, colleagues, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to begin by thanking the South African Chairmanship for organising this highly representative meeting in the BRICS Plus/Outreach format. It provides us with a very important communications framework, offering us a great opportunity to have a meaningful conversation on topical matters dealing with mutually beneficial cooperation with like-minded countries, i.e., the countries which largely share the approaches of the five BRICS nations. I am glad to offer all of you, dear friends, my greetings.
See also
BRICS leaders made media statements
August 24, 2023
BRICS leaders’ extended format meeting
August 23, 2023
All of us here are proponents of a new multipolar world order with a genuine balance of interests and taking into consideration the sovereign interests of as many countries as possible, while enabling them to follow their own development models and helping them preserve their diverse national cultures and traditions.
I would like to point out that BRICS is not competing against anyone and does not seek to act as a counterweight to anyone. It is obvious, however, that the emergence of a new world order, which is an objective process, has its fierce opponents who are seeking to stall this process and avert the emergence of new, independent centres of development and power around the world.
The countries of the so-called Golden Billion have gone to great lengths to preserve the unipolar world as it used to be. It suits them, and they are the ones who benefit from it. They are trying to substitute international law with their own rules-based order, as they call it, but no one has seen these rules. At the same time, they use these rules in the pursuit of their self-serving objectives and change them whenever it suits their political agenda, whenever they like, and in any way that suits the interests of specific countries.
In fact, this is also a manifestation of colonialism, even if in a new form. By the way, it is not very pretty. Today, these colonisers hide behind the noble slogans of democracy and human rights, while seeking to resolve the challenges they face at the expense of others and continuing to siphon off resources from the developing countries.
By the way, the President of Brazil has mentioned the debt burden the developing economies face. Of course, on the one hand, there is this effort to siphon off all these resources, while, on the other hand, in terms of lending, the relations are engineered in a way that makes repaying these loans virtually impossible, so these obligations can be viewed as mandatory indemnities rather than loan payments.
The emerging new world order is also threatened by the radical neoliberalism certain countries are trying to impose, aiming to destroy traditional values that are important to all of us: the family and respect for national and religious traditions.
Certain politicians do not hesitate to justify even neo-Nazism, xenophobia, and various kinds of extremism and condone terrorists to serve their opportunistic purposes.
The global majority that the countries attending the summit belong to, is becoming increasingly tired of the pressure and manipulation; but it is open to honest, equal and mutually respectful cooperation.
This is the approach that the BRICS countries take to developing their multidimensional relations with the countries present at the summit and other interested states, as well as regional integration bodies, including the CIS, the EAEU, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, ASEAN, the Caribbean Community and the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf.
Given that most African states are participating in our meeting, BRICS today naturally focuses on Africa, and we in Russia are happy about that. We believe that this is the right approach, especially since we have the Republic of South Africa as our Chair today.
Friends, I met with many of you recently, at the second Russia-Africa Summit in St Petersburg where useful and constructive discussions took place. We reaffirmed in St Petersburg that Russia and Africa are linked by growing ties of friendship and close mutually beneficial relations that rely on a foundation laid during the African peoples’ struggle for freedom in the mid-20th century.
We deeply appreciate the African countries’ extremely friendly attitude towards Russia. For its part, Russia is sincerely interested in a further deepening of multifaceted ties with the African continent, and we will actively promote these ties in practice and implement new joint projects in various fields.
Our country has been paying special attention to ensuring food and fertilizer supplies to African countries and the global markets in general. In other words, we use all the opportunities at our disposal to contribute to the global efforts to fight hunger and prevent a food crisis. Luckily, Russia has produced record grain harvests for the second year in a row.
By the way, as I have already said, we will provide urgent humanitarian aid to six African countries within the next several months by sending each of them between 25,000 and 50,000 tonnes of grain and delivering it for free, as was announced back in St Petersburg. We are about to complete the talks with our friends on these matters, and we are about to deliver on this task. I must point out that we are doing this despite all the illegal sanctions against our exports which seriously complicate transport, logistics, insurance and settlements. I would like to reassure our African friends that Russia will always remain a reliable supplier of agricultural products and will continue to support the neediest countries.
Russia has the same responsible attitude on energy exports which mostly focus on rapidly developing markers. By offering its fuel at competitive prices, Russia helps friendly countries, including those in Africa, keep prices down while expanding manufacturing and agricultural output. This strengthens their energy security and makes their economies more resilient.
Experts have calculated that by 2050, the global population will increase by 1.7 billion people, while global demand for energy will be up by 22 percent with this demand mostly driven by the least developed and developing countries. Therefore, it is obvious that there will be no alternative to hydrocarbon fuel in the foreseeable future. This does not mean that we do not need to accomplish the energy transition, but the transition to a low-carbon economy must be gradual, balanced and carefully prepared, taking into consideration specific national contexts and capabilities.
Speaking of which, certain countries are now dealing with the consequences of the mistakes they made in planning for that transition. The problems are only growing. But we believe these problems can be solved by efficient use of all types of energy resources after the introduction of new, clean technologies and incentives to reduce the carbon footprint.
Russia, along with its BRICS partners, certainly supports technological cooperation on equal terms in renewable energy as well as in other important areas, including the development of new types of nuclear reactors, the promotion of hydrogen technologies, and so on, for example, hydropower. By the way, Africa is our priority partner in these areas as well.
Russia is currently involved in more than 30 promising energy projects in Africa, which are at various stages of development. We are active in 16 countries. For example, Rosatom is building the Dabaa nuclear power plant in Egypt. The total capacity of the power projects we are promoting is about 3.7 gigawatts.
Exports of Russian crude oil, petrochemical products, and liquefied natural gas to Africa have more than doubled over the past two years – a decent increase of 160 percent.
It goes without saying that every aspect that was discussed fully applies not only to Africa, but also to other regions and certainly the countries invited to this BRICS plus/Outreach meeting – the export of food, fertilisers, energy resources, other economic initiatives, as well as cultural, scientific, education and sports cooperation. We will build constructive and mutually beneficial relations with all these countries and expand our partnership. Our country has a lot to offer.
In this regard, I would like to note that Russia will be chairing BRICS next year. Representing our colleagues, we will prioritise expanding ties with the countries that are joining us in the BRICS plus/Outreach format.
Colleagues,
In conclusion, I would like to express confidence that this meeting will be very useful and, I hope, will contribute to the strengthening of friendly relations between the five BRICS countries – more countries next year – and your countries, and will serve to intensify cooperation in a range of areas.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 24, 2023, 12:40
Text version