Events
Vladimir Putin received letters of credence from 17 foreign ambassadors
The President received letters of credence from 17 newly-appointed ambassadors of foreign states. As per tradition, the ceremony took place in the Alexander Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace.
April 5, 2023
15:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 11
Ceremony for presenting letters of credence.
Letters of credence were presented to the President of Russia by: Jakob Henningsen (the Kingdom of Denmark), Victor Alfredo Verdun Bitar (the Republic of Paraguay), Robert Kvile (the Kingdom of Norway), Luciano Nkogo Ndong Ayekaba (Equatorial Guinea), Hamoud Salim Abdullah Al Tuwayah (the Sultanate of Oman), Bashar Jaafari (the Syrian Arab Republic), Nenad Kolev (the Republic of North Macedonia), Pengiran Muhammad Husaini bin Alauddin (Brunei Darussalam), Eduardo Villegas Megías (the United Mexican States), Juan Ramon Elvir Salgado (the Republic of Honduras), Ambrose Mutinhiri (the Republic of Zimbabwe), Alkhas Kvitsinia (the Republic of Abkhazia), Lynne Marie Tracy (the United States of America), Qahtan Taha Khalaf al-Janabi (the Republic of Iraq), Pichkhun Panha (the Kingdom of Cambodia), Nyankoya Habu (the Republic of Guinea) and Roland Galharague (the European Union).
* * *
Speech at ceremony for presenting letters of credence
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen,
I warmly welcome all of you at the ceremony for presenting letters of credence here in the Kremlin.
You have been entrusted with an honourable and at the same time responsible mission – to represent your states in Russia. We proceed from the premise that you will be proactively involved in dealing with all kinds of matters relating to political dialogue, trade and economic ties, cultural and humanitarian exchanges, and people-to-people contacts.
The situation in the world is currently challenging, with many disagreements that seem irreconcilable at times and often hinder normal productive cooperation between states. However, I would like to hope that the activity of your embassies will help to foster cooperation between our countries. You may rest assured that all of your initiatives and proposals that are in line with this endeavour will have the support of both Russian officials and our business and public circles.
I would like to emphasise that Russia is open to constructive partnership with all countries without exception. We do not intend to isolate ourselves nor do we have any prejudiced or hostile intentions towards anybody and expect that our partners will adhere to the principles of equality and mutual consideration of interests in their relations with Russia.
The new Foreign Policy Concept of the Russian Federation, approved the other day, sets forth these positions. It formulates a system of views on our national interests in the complicated and rapidly changing world and describes the main goals, tasks and key areas of Russian diplomacy.
The main point is that, as an independent state, Russia pursues a multi-vector foreign policy driven by its national priorities and the awareness of its special responsibility for maintaining peace and security at the global and regional levels.
More than a thousand years of independent statehood, rich cultural heritage and the ability to ensure harmonious coexistence of different peoples, ethnic, religious and linguistic groups on one common territory, which has been developed over many centuries, determine Russia's special position as a unique country-civilization.
Our country will continue performing a historically unique mission aimed at maintaining global balance of power and building a multipolar international system, as well as ensuring conditions for the peaceful progressive development of humanity on the basis of a unifying and constructive agenda.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Today’s ceremony is being attended by the heads of 17 diplomatic missions. By tradition, I will briefly describe the status of relations between Russia and each of the states you represent.
Our official relations with Denmark are 530 years old. At one time, even the reigning families of the two countries were related – Maria Feodorovna, the spouse of Emperor Alexander III, was Danish by origin. In other words, our states have always been historically close to each other and behaved as good neighbours in the Baltic.
Today, the Baltic Sea is literally rough. First, I will mention the acts of sabotage of the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 gas pipelines in September 2022. Mr Ambassador, we hope Denmark will support our proposals to establish an independent international commission to investigate all the circumstances of these incidents.
Russia’s cooperation with the Republic of Paraguay covers trade, economic, cultural, humanitarian and other spheres. I must note that people of Russian origin played a major role in Paraguay’s development and its institutional development, including the army. They helped develop education and research in Paraguay. We appreciate the fact that people of Russian origin benefit from favourable treatment in Paraguay when it comes to preserving their ethnic identity and national traditions and to using their native language without any restrictions or impediments.
We have maintained constructive relations with Norway for many years, considering that our two countries share a border. Let me remind you, among other things, that thousands of Soviet soldiers sacrificed their lives to liberate northern Norway from the Nazis in 1944. Today, bilateral contacts have been reduced to a minimum, and interaction on the key international and regional matters has been suspended, including in the Arctic, despite its importance for both countries. This hardly meets the interests of our two peoples.
The Soviet Union was the first country to recognise the Republic of Equatorial Guinea as an independent and sovereign state 55 years ago. Today, our two countries are committed to strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation in geological exploration, joint hydrocarbon extraction and processing projects, and power generation, as well as in other areas. We maintain effective contact on matters related to the situation in global energy markets, including within the OPEC Plus format as well as within the Gas Exporting Countries Forum.
Russia and Oman have been consistent in developing their relations. During the recent telephone conversation with Sultan Al Said, we discussed in detail topical matters related to the multifaceted ties between Russia and Oman. The relevant Russian agencies and businesses are committed to stepping up efforts to expand bilateral trade and investment ties and undertaking major joint projects, including in agriculture and transport.
Syria is a reliable partner and ally in the Arab world, as well as on the international stage. Russia helped the people of Syria in a time of need to defend their sovereignty and independence in the face of aggression by international terrorists. The recent official visit by President al-Assad
took place in an atmosphere of friendship, mutual understanding and mutual respect. We reached important agreements to further expand bilateral cooperation in various spheres.
Russia immediately responded to the devastating earthquake this past February and extended a helping hand to Syria by sending experienced rescue workers and humanitarian aid to this country. We will continue doing everything we can to support our Syrian friends in their efforts to deal with the consequences of this natural disaster. Of course, we will be there to help bring back to normal the political situation in the Syrian Arab Republic and promote post-conflict recovery, as well as establish ties with neighbouring countries.
Our principled policy line in relations with North Macedonia remains unchanged: we stand for the comprehensive development of relations and the resolution of all issues on the bilateral agenda.
Cooperation with the State of Brunei Darussalam, our important partner in the Asia-Pacific, is at a good level today. Much is being done for the successful implementation of joint projects in high-technology, digitalisation of the urban environment and public administration, and personnel training. It is important that bilateral contacts are expanding between Muslim organisations and education institutions. As for international affairs, Mr Ambassador, we are committed to the closest possible cooperation with our Brunei partners as part of ties between Russia and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
Russia’s relations with the United Mexican States date back more than 130 years and rely on traditions of mutual respect and mutually beneficial cooperation. We appreciate Mexico City's balanced approaches to resolving global problems through multilateralism, non-interference, compliance with international law and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
I would like to note that Russian-Mexican trade reached US$4 billion last year, which is a good figure among the Latin American countries in trade with Russia. We are interested in further increasing trade, implementing joint projects in energy, pharmaceuticals and agriculture and we are certainly open to expanding scientific, cultural and tourist exchanges. By the way, today is the Mexican Ambassador’s birthday, and I am delighted to wish him good health, prosperity and success.
Honduras is Russia’s important partner in Central America. We will continue the political dialogue with that country, will further expand trade and economic ties and cultural and humanitarian exchanges. We have supported the Honduran side’s initiative to conclude an intergovernmental agreement on the mutual recognition of higher education documents, which will certainly stimulate educational exchanges.
The friendship between Russia and Zimbabwe is time-tested. Our country supports the Zimbabwean people in defending their sovereignty, especially in the light of the sanctions war unleashed against that republic, unprecedented sanctions pressure. Our mutual interests include deepening trade and investment cooperation, developing industrial cooperation, and implementing joint commercial projects in culture and education.
The Republic of Abkhazia is our strategic ally and next-door neighbour. We will celebrate important dates this year – the 15th anniversary of Russia’s recognition of Abkhazia’s independence, the establishment of diplomatic relations and the signing of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance. Russia will continue fulfilling its commitments on the comprehensive socioeconomic development of Abkhazia.
Unfortunately, relations between Russia and the United States, which directly affect global security and stability, are going through a deep crisis. It is rooted in fundamentally different approaches to the formation of the modern world order.
Madam Ambassador, I do not wish to upset the positive atmosphere of the ceremony for presenting the letters of credence and I know that you probably won’t share my opinion, but I must say that the use by the US of such foreign policy tools as support for the so-called colour revolutions, including support for the state coup in Ukraine in 2014, ultimately led to the current crisis in Ukraine and exacerbated the deterioration of Russia-US relations.
But we have always supported the development of Russia-US relations exclusively on the principles of equality, mutual respect for each other’s sovereignty and interests, and non-interference in internal affairs. We will continue following these principles in the future as well.
Next year will mark 80 years since the establishment of official diplomatic relations with Iraq. Our bilateral cooperation stands out for its rich experience of mutually beneficial joint projects in different areas, including the oil-and-gas sector. I would like to note that our trade has been steadily growing in the past two years. Now our common goal is to keep up the momentum in mutual trade, in part, by diversifying our economic cooperation. Russia is consistently advocating unconditional respect for Iraq’s unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Mr Ambassador, we are categorically against any foreign interference in the domestic affairs of your country.
We are interested in further developing our constructive cooperation with Cambodia, including in defence and security, trade, tourism and ICT. We have frequent political contacts. Last year, the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of the Russian Security Council visited the Kingdom. Cambodian representatives regularly attend forums on pressing international and regional issues held in Russia. Over 8,000 Cambodians received higher education in our country. Cambodian students continue to study in Russian universities today and believe that this education is in demand in your country, Mr Ambassador.
Russian-Guinean ties are traditionally friendly. Russia is a major investor in the economy of this republic. Our companies have for a long time, and successfully, engaged in mining and processing minerals in Guinea, and we are grateful for the favourable conditions provided for this work. Russian specialists are helping the Guineans fight the Ebola virus and many other infectious diseases, providing humanitarian aid, medical equipment and vaccines. Guinea is going through a difficult stage of internal political development, and we wish the Guinean people a speedy stabilisation of the situation in accordance with the constitution.
In the presence of the distinguished ambassadors of Equatorial Guinea, Zimbabwe and the Republic of Guinea, I would like to note that the second Russia-Africa summit will be held in St Petersburg in July. We are making major efforts to get ready for this important event and drafting a rich and substantial agenda for the summit and the economic and humanitarian forum that will be held alongside it. We will be happy to see the leaders of all African countries in St Petersburg, including the heads of regional organisations.
The head of the EU delegation here probably shares the opinion that, to our great regret, relations between this association and Russia have deteriorated greatly in recent years. We see the reason for that in the fact that having abandoned its main and original mission and function of promoting economic cooperation and integration in Europe, the EU has initiated a geopolitical confrontation with Russia. It did initiate a confrontation with our country.
I would like to express hope that the actions that damaged our relations can remain in the past, and we will do everything we can to build relations in the proper way that is suitable both for Russia and the economies of the EU member countries. We hope that the logic of mutual cooperation will eventually prevail.
Ladies and gentlemen,
In closing, despite everything that is happening around the world, in Russia, around our countries and our country, I would like to once again sincerely wish you success in your important mission. I hope that working in Russia will be interesting for you from the professional point of view and will allow you to get to know our country better, to get to know its history and culture more deeply and that your efforts will help overcome the challenges that the whole world, including our countries, is facing. In this sense, I wish you every success.
Thank you for your attention.
Unfortunately, this ends our ceremony, because sanitary restrictions remain in effect, and we will not be able to communicate in person, but I am confident that you will have many such opportunities in the course of your work.
All the best. Thank you.
Geography
Abkhazia
Brunei
Cambodia
Denmark
12 more
Topics
Foreign policy
Russia–European Union
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2023, 15:45
Text versionEvents
Security Council meeting
Vladimir Putin chaired a videoconference meeting of the Russian Federation Security Council to discuss issues of ensuring law and order and public security on the territory of the country’s new regions.
April 5, 2023
19:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 7
Security Council meeting (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
Today, we will discuss further efforts to ensure law and order and public security in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, and in the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions.
See also
Nikolai Patrushev’s comment following the Security Council meeting
April 5, 2023
This is of course a multifaceted issue that is directly linked to Russia’s national security and sovereignty and the prospects for the development of these regions. Most importantly, it is related to the lives of millions of people who are going through serious and severe trials.
Our goal is to integrate these historically Russian lands of Donbass and Novorossiya into the economic, legal and education space of our country as soon as possible.
Additional
Security Council News
Efforts are already being made to restore housing, roads, education, cultural and healthcare facilities. Industrial and agricultural businesses and enterprises are being relaunched, new jobs are created, pensions and benefits are paid on a regular basis. The preferential mortgage programme with an interest rate of 2 percent is now available.
As you know, I visited Mariupol recently and reviewed the progress of recovery. Construction is being conducted on a large scale, and people are working even at night. You can see that the city is changing, but it is important to carry out positive changes in all cities and villages in all four regions. A long-term programme for the socioeconomic development of these regions of the Russian Federation is being drafted for this purpose. Today, I want to ask Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin to report on what has been completed and what still needs to be done.
At the same time, I will repeat that the situation in these regions remains tense. The Kiev regime continues to commit grave crimes against the local civilian population. They spare no one, subjecting cities and towns to missile strikes, artillery and mortar shelling.
They carry out regular terrorist attacks against government officials and law enforcement officers, journalists, public activists, school and university teachers. The neo-Nazis and their collaborators' activity has expanded beyond the new constituent entities as crimes have been reported in other Russian regions as well. We have every reason to claim that the potential of third countries and Western intelligence services has been used in plotting the sabotage and terrorist attacks.
In addition, purely criminal elements, including organised crime, drug traffickers and financial swindlers, to name a few, are trying to exploit the situation in the DPR, LPR, and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions.
I would like to emphasise that the Interior Ministry, the Prosecutor's Office, the Investigative Committee and other law enforcement agencies, as well as the special services, should make every effort to ensure the local population can live in safety, to protect people, their security, property, their possessions from crime, illegal actions and violence, including by providing effective support to local entrepreneurs.
It is clear that the entire system for ensuring public security and the rule of law must be built essentially from scratch in the new regions of the Federation. We naturally face various challenges, including organisational problems, which we recently discussed at the end-of-year board meetings of the Prosecutor General's Office, the Federal Security Service and the Ministry of the Interior. Federal agencies and their central offices are providing the necessary support to the regions. I ask you to continue to act in the same way and step up these efforts.
At the same time, it is natural that the territorial units of law enforcement agencies have to shoulder the main burden. They are being created in a difficult situation, in conditions of martial law. Despite this, they are working and performing their duties professionally and courageously. I would like to once again thank law enforcement and other security agencies that protect people from crime and unlawful encroachments, help evacuate civilians from dangerous areas and stand guard over people’s legitimate rights and interests.
Let me remind you that under federal constitutional laws, territorial units of law enforcement agencies and special services in the new Russian constituent entities should be fully operational by June 1, 2023. The more systemic and thorough this effort, the faster people will return to normal life, regulated by Russian laws. Today we will see how this work is going.
As I already noted, it is essential to rely on local personnel as much as possible – on proven professionals, brave people who are principled and familiar with the real situation. I ask the Government and the heads of the relevant federal agencies to take under review all issues related to material support for the new units, and in the future, to provide them with modern equipment and information systems, weapons and means of communication as a matter of priority.
We also need to more actively involve local residents in the work of safeguarding law and order, improving the warning system for security threats, rapidly responding to citizens' appeals and establishing continuous feedback channels.
Obviously, changes will need to be made to the strategic planning documents for law enforcement and public security, so that they fully take into account the regional specifics of the DPR, LPR, the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions, and clearly identify existing threats and risks and the measures needed to neutralise them.
Again, I would like to note that we must focus on fighting crime in all four regions, including the prevention and suppression of grave and particularly grave crimes and the attempts to take possession of other people's property. The share of such crimes among those reported is quite high.
A special emphasis should be placed on trafficking in drugs, weapons, ammunition and explosives. In particular, we need to promptly respond to attempts to take them out of the zone of the special military operation to other Russian regions.
And, of course, it is also necessary to improve the effectiveness of fighting criminal schemes for using information technology. Of course, propaganda and information aggression by the neo-Nazis and their pro-Western patrons should be suppressed, and lies, provocations and juggling the facts aimed at destabilising the socio-political situation in the LPR and the DPR, as well as the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions, must be exposed.
Overall, I would like to emphasise that under martial law, which is still in force in the new constituent entities of the Federation, and in order to ensure citizens’ rights and freedoms, it is necessary to establish effective interaction between the executive authorities of the regions and military command, law enforcement agencies and special services, to create regional interagency collective bodies under the top officials and to organise their system-wide work.
Here is what I would like to emphasise: the enemy is using its holdover underground forces, including various neo-Nazi and other radical groups, to intimidate people. This is where you need to act in a strong and efficient manner. Control over the situation must be reliably ensured.
The vast majority of people in the new regions have not only made their conscious historical choice to stand for unity with Russia, but also to honestly and courageously fulfil their duty, resume production, engage in business and work at hospitals, nurseries, schools, universities, housing and utilities enterprises in cities, towns and villages, local authorities and law enforcement agencies. They must know, see and sense that our entire, large country stands behind them, and we must do our best to protect them.
Everything I said today, right now, is not easy, but quite solvable issues, and you are aware that we have successful experience of such work and all the resources that are needed to resolve the objectives at hand.
Let's get started. Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin
is our next speaker.
Please, Mr Khusnullin.
Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin: Mr President, colleagues,
Mr President, as per your instructions on setting up a working group and coordinating reconstruction efforts, we have aligned the operation of the headquarters of all the law enforcement and security agencies and concerned ministries and departments jointly with the regions. The Construction Ministry is supervising these cooperation efforts at the level of headquarters on a daily basis.
As for the results we have achieved so far, I can say that we have built, renovated and reconstructed 9,500 facilities. Approximately 4,500 of them are the energy facilities and utility networks that were to be launched into operation in time for the heating season. Our priority task was to supply electricity, gas, heat and other utility services to the people despite the continuing shelling of the infrastructure and explosions on the service lines, as you have said.
I can tell you that we have fulfilled this task almost in full. By the beginning of winter, we commissioned almost all the necessary facilities and buildings. To do that, we made use of all the available resources both in the given regions and in their patron regions. To date, 56 regions have assumed responsibility for the facilities in their spheres of operation and for preparing them for the winter season. Altogether, they are working at 48,000 facilities and 11,000 kilometres of service lines.
To date, the biggest amount of work, or nearly 4,500 facilities, has been completed by energy companies, which continue working.
Our gas providers have accomplished a great deal as well; they have restored hundreds of kilometres of existing gas pipelines and have built a 72-kilometre connecting gas pipeline towards Melitopol, thereby creating a gas supply system that is independent of Ukraine. To this end, they have built a gas pumping station in Kerch, Crimea, very quickly, within a matter of four months, which is being used to supply gas to Crimea and to ensure the necessary gas pressure for gas provided to the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions.
A great deal has been done to prepare residential blocks for the winter season. We have prepared thousands of houses, and in total this amounts to 48,000 sites.
On a separate note, I would like to say a few words about efforts underway in Mariupol. You have been there in person and saw the extent of destruction the city has suffered. You know this well. However, today we can already say that preparations for the winter season were completed on time for 1,529 sites out of a total of 1,800, including social and cultural institutions, as well as housing. Today, we can say in all confidence that all these buildings will get heating during the cold season.
We continue working around the clock. There are now 21,000 people working in Mariupol, down from a peak of 34,000. Ahead of New Year, we had to mobilise human resources from all regions, and to call in state contractors to deliver on these tasks.
I also wanted to note that we have a major undertaking ahead of us to repair single-family homes. As of today, we have restored just 11,000 homes, so we will need to step up these efforts in the foreseeable future. We have taken all the necessary decisions to this effect.
We have gone to great lengths to improve water supply. Our adversaries wanted to impose a water blockade on us by blowing up water supply intake canals and the existing waterways. But despite all this, we built a total of seven water ducts to cover the basic needs in water.
At the same time, there was a decision to build a separate water line from the Don to Donetsk, about 200 kilometres long, in order to ensure that Donbass has the water it needs, and you approved this decision. We have never built a duct this long so quickly, in just over five months, with a capacity of almost 300,000 cubic metres.
Today, construction has been completed and it is in the testing and adjustment stage and being filled with water. In this context, I would like to extend our deep gratitude to the military builders – they were the ones who did this work. Power suppliers, Rosseti, installed power supply very quickly, so Donetsk and its suburbs will receive water soon. In addition, as I have already said, we built several more ducts and water supply infrastructure, in fact several dozen kilometres.
Much has been done to rebuilt roads and create new ones. We built or upgraded over 300 kilometres of roads linking Crimea to Rostov within a very short timeframe, giving us a new motorway in addition to the Crimean bridge.
In this regard, I would like to note the National Guard’s role in protecting road infrastructure. Not only have we built and restored bridges, but ensured that we control them, took them under our protection. I would also like to note that the National Guard has been doing a lot these days to defend and secure these structures, as well as the people working there.
This year, we plan to build at least 700 to 800 kilometres of roads. We are drafting a programme to bring at least 50 percent of the regional road network up to standard within three years, just like in the Russian Federation. This means 21,000 kilometres of roads.
The federal budget will pay for 1,000 kilometres covering the main roads to our border regions. We have already identified the contractors. As of today, repairs and construction are already underway with old pavement removed on 273 kilometres. We will definitely fulfil these plans by the end of the year.
I would like to dwell separately on communications projects. We have now installed 2,760 base stations, and there are plans to launch 2,200 other communications stations in 2023. The quality of communications networks leaves a lot to be desired. The Ministry of Digital Development is implementing a separate programme, and we are monitoring it. I hope that we will drastically improve the situation in the communications sector in the near future. We have facilitated the work of 1,092 post offices in the four regions.
I would like to note separately the large-scale work of the Emergencies Ministry, from the very first day, especially where hostilities had just ended or were still ongoing. They delivered 370,000 tonnes of humanitarian aid. They organised this work very well, while facing shelling and other risks. We quickly obtained everything that was in short supply from the Federal Agency for State Reserves, and we subsequently replenished our stocks.
We are working hard in the social sector. As of today, almost 400,000 people have received 10,000-ruble lump-sum payments. Over one million people are now receiving pensions. Over three million people, or nearly 64 percent of the regions’ population, receive regular pension payments.
At the same time, it should be noted that this work was mostly organised by local government agencies in highly challenging conditions where people were intimidated, told not to accept money from Russia, and that someone was planning to come back some time in the future. However, we overcame this negative trend. People are now receiving all these payments, and this is now one of the main sources of funding for the territory.
This is highly important work, and we would like to thank our colleagues from the social sector who became actively involved in this effort. The regions are expected to completely make their own payments from the second quarter on.
The Presidential Executive Office actively addressed another highly important project together with the Ministry of Education. It is aimed at preparing kindergartens and schools for the academic year. By September 1, we opened 1,381 schools, 24 universities and 1,230 kindergartens. The Russian National Guard and private security companies guarded them 24 hours a day. This decision was highly important, so that people would not be afraid to study there. The National Guard and local forces organised this work. In fact, it continues in a more streamlined form.
In all, 415 healthcare institutions are functioning on the territory of the new regions. As per your direct instruction, the Defence Ministry has built and opened a multi-functional medical centre in Lugansk and a medical centre in Mariupol. You have personally seen what a wonderful centre the Federal Medical Biological Agency is building. We are also building a huge perinatal centre with an area of 29,000 square metres. The women of Donetsk addressed you, and you issued the relevant instruction. We started working in early 2023, and we are planning to complete this perinatal centre in Donetsk before the year is out.
We delivered 5,500 pieces of equipment, including buses, utility vehicles and special-purpose equipment, to these territories. We worked in highly complicated conditions with the Ministry of Industry and Trade; we sent this equipment because the local equipment had either been wrecked or stolen or was not working.
We organised a large effort to relocate the residents of Kherson and the Kherson Region. In all, 68,000 people were relocated from Kherson, with 53,000 of them obtaining housing certificates so far.
We are granting mortgages at 2 percent interest. Against all odds, we are already moving to start ground-breaking operations at new construction sites. We believe that the construction programme will continue.
Mr President, you have seen the residential buildings in Mariupol. We have already built about 200,000 square metres of housing there, several thousand flats. We will build 500,000 square metres of floor space or over 5,000 flats before the year is out, and all of them will be open for occupancy. People are receiving new and comfortable housing.
Agriculture is a separate aspect of our work.
We had some problems with produce shipping, but we managed to organise shipments despite everything.
We had trouble organising the sowing and harvesting campaigns. The Ministry of Agriculture is involved in this and has allocated funding and is leasing equipment. We have already delivered hundreds of pieces of equipment to the new territories. This work is underway.
I would like to note our coordination with the State Duma and the Presidential Executive Office on drafting a law on the free economic zone. The bill has been submitted to the State Duma. I believe it will help attract investment.
There are even more serious proposals as to how we can make these territories more attractive. I hope that we and our colleagues, including the State Duma and the Federation Council, will work to modify this bill to make it as convenient as possible.
As per your instructions, we have completed substantial work to organise a programme for the socio-economic development of the new regions. We have coordinated specific measures and projects with every region and every federal executive agency, and we will implement these in 2023–2025. In all, we are listing over 300 measures and projects with the relevant statistics and key performance indicators (KPI) for subsequent evaluation, and the concerned project managers are responsible for implementing them.
This comprehensive programme will make it possible to see to the interests of the residents as much as possible. This includes healthcare, education, culture, sport, work with young people, the public sector, the social sector, the infrastructure reconstruction programme and a programme for expanding and launching as many enterprises as we can.
We hope that this programme will facilitate extremely rapid development. However, I will say that this is an extremely ambitious regional development programme, in terms of its scale and volume, to be adopted in modern Russian history. We have set aside sufficiently large funding, and we are currently adjusting it.
The effort to develop the utilities infrastructure benefited from a special funding arrangement. Mr President, you have seen with your own eyes the state of the utilities. The military operation alone cannot be blamed for all this damage. In fact, the utilities sector was in complete disrepair. Basically, it could not work properly and was nearly in a state of emergency. For this reason, the funds allocated for infrastructure development will definitely bear fruit.
In keeping with your instructions, we provided more buses for developing public transit.
We have plans to rebuild and renovate 4.5 million square metres of housing, and to build 1.5 million square metres of new housing within the next few years. In all, we will restore 6.2 million square metres of housing.
As for water supply, we believe that the decision to build a water duct will provide quality and reliable water supply for the 1.2 million people living in Donetsk and its suburbs. This effort provides for building or upgrading 830 kilometres of water utilities and wastewater disposal lines.
Also at your instructions, almost all state-owned companies have been drafting their own programmes for infrastructure upgrades and development in the new regions for 2023–2025. We have to add just a few minor touches, and once this is done, we will be ready to approve them.
On a separate note, I would like to recognise the regions that are providing assistance to the new territories. They built or rebuilt more than 4,000 structures, and sent many people to work there. I can tell you that your request to have the entire country working together to help the new regions has been fulfilled in full as of today.
I would like to note that all the funds set forth in the investment programme were allocated in full despite the fact that this initiative came unexpectedly. We have been able to overcome all the challenges and find solutions by working with the Finance Ministry to balance the books and deliver on all the objectives as planned.
Let me extend my special gratitude to the heads of the four new regions. They were the ones who had to bear the brunt of this burden. They have been present on the ground, working with people, taking prompt action, and working on all these issues with us in an emergency response setting.
Take the Severodonetsk metropolitan area, for example: shelling incidents happen every day there, but people refuse to leave. People believe that everything will get back to normal, and we will provide them with heating, water and power supply, and we are doing just that. People working there risk their lives, including utilities workers and all the others who are involved.
(The Deputy Prime Minister thanked all those who help deliver on the objectives related to developing the new territories, including the Federal Security Services, the Defence Ministry, the Presidential Executive Office, the Government of the Russian Federation, the State Duma and various federal agencies.)
Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to extend my deep gratitude to you. You know all these objectives and the situation better than anyone else. The promptness and responsiveness when taking decisions on all matters have been unprecedented. We would have never delivered on all these tasks within this short timeframe in the ordinary course of business. It would have taken us years to do this, and for some projects, we would have never succeeded without your responsiveness and your constant care, attention and support. Thank you very much.
I do hope that the system we have put in place will enable us to deliver on any task you set before us.
This is the end of my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr Khusnullin.
<…>
Geography
Lugansk People’s Republic
Zaporozhye Region
Donetsk People’s Republic
Kherson Region
Topics
National security
Regions
Persons
Khusnullin Marat
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: April 5, 2023, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko in the Kremlin.
April 5, 2023
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 6
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko,
I am very glad to see you.
Tomorrow we have a big, serious event – a meeting of the Supreme State Council of the Union State
. There are many issues that we need to discuss, and we will definitely do that. But before starting today's meeting, I want to once again congratulate you on the Day of Unity of the Peoples of Russia and Belarus, which we celebrated on April 2.
I must say that a lot has been done as a result of our joint work in all areas; again, tomorrow we will discuss all this. This covers our interaction in the international arena and the joint resolution of issues pertaining to ensuring the security of our states.
Of course, it is especially gratifying to note the results of our work in the economic sphere. According to our statistics, our trade has increased over the year, perhaps not to the high figures that we have recorded with some other countries, but it has increased by 12 percent. In absolute terms this is impressive. According to our analysis, it is US$45 billion, and according to yours – almost US$50 billion.
President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: With services, yes.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, with services. In other words, this is a serious result of our joint work.
And there are many other issues related to union building.
Thank you for coming tonight, on the eve of the meeting. This will allow us talk in a calm, relaxed atmosphere about what we will have to decide tomorrow and officially discuss together with our colleagues.
Welcome to Moscow.
Alexander Lukashenko: Probably a year and a half or two years ago, you and I determined that we have a lot to do as part of building the Union State. If you remember, at that moment we outlined 28 Union programmes.
Vladimir Putin: Exactly.
Alexander Lukashenko: There are heights that we couldn’t reach for a long time and still can’t reach. At your suggestion – right here in this very place – you said: if we cannot do something, let us not waste time and do what we can. And we identified 28 Union programmes – and almost 80 percent of them have been implemented mainly by our governments.
Our frequent meetings – journalists have often drawn attention to this – were aimed precisely at avoiding slowdowns in implementing the programmes. If they stumbled somewhere, and the governments faced some difficulties, we immediately met and, by making decisions, set the course for the implementation of these programmes.
Therefore, we have purposefully worked hard on these programmes for two years. And tomorrow – I noticed it while preparing for this event – tomorrow will be the first such meeting where we will talk more, summing up the results: there will be fewer problematic issues.
Vladimir Putin: Yes.
Alexander Lukashenko: Of course, they exist, they crop up more and more as we develop, and they also come from the outside.
I closely followed your trip to Tula – this was a very correct, good trip. Again: even the working class is turning us towards import substitution. You were right then, citing agriculture as an example: everyone threatened you with hunger, cold and so on – and what? Today there is a lot of grain in Russia. When was the last time there was such a huge harvest?
Vladimir Putin: Prices are falling, unfortunately.
Alexander Lukashenko: Therefore, there will be exactly the same situation in industry. We will overcome all this. And whoever hopes or predicted that we will collapse, we have not collapsed at all. Yes, it will not be easy, but when was it ever easy?
We will endure and do everything we can, even in microelectronics, although you and I, when meeting in your office a year ago, already discussed what we should do. It turns out that there are opportunities to work here too: missiles are flying and military vehicles are on the move both in Russia and in Belarus, so we will overcome everything, it will take a little time. Well, tomorrow we will sum up what we have done – we definitely earned our salaries.
Vladimir Putin: I watched and listened to your address…
Alexander Lukashenko: Oh, really, it was so long.
Vladimir Putin: The key points. Let’s discuss them now.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: April 5, 2023, 20:00
Text version