Events
Answers to journalists’ questions
Following the Russia–Africa Summit Vladimir Putin answered journalists’ questions.
July 29, 2023
23:35
St Petersburg
4 of 7
Following the Russia-Africa Summit Vladimir Putin spoke with journalists. Photo: Sergei Bobylev, TASS
Question: Mr President, during the summit and your meetings the African leaders several times remembered the Soviet Union, the strong relations which were created back then. I have a question in this regard. During the Soviet times our country was a leading voice of the national liberation and social justice for the entire world, including the African continent.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: A leading voice is very good, but a leading voice and a Kalashnikov rifle was way more efficient back then. This is why everybody remembers our specific aid to African countries in the struggle for their liberation.
Question: Definitely, among other things. What messages does modern Russia deliver to Africa? Is there anything we can offer apart from trade and economic cooperation and what kind of cooperation is in demand from the African side?
Vladimir Putin: You know, here is what I often think about when I meet with our African friends. At a certain period of time, during the Soviet era, I remember it well, an opinion was formed within the society that we were wasting money. Well, why do we spend money on Africa? Where is this Africa? We have a lot of our own problems.
And now, when I talk with our friends from Africa, I think with gratitude of the people who pursued such policy in Africa. They laid great foundations of durability, friendly relations with African countries, which… I do not know whether they expected such results themselves or not. And this was done back then, naturally, and our attempts to work on the African track today are made in the interests of Russia, first and foremost.
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
There are many components here. The economic – let’s start with the economy. Such a huge potential and it is growing, at a very fast pace, at an exponential rate. There are already 1.5 billion people in Africa, and this is a very young population, growing very fast.
Everybody is well aware of the fact that the African continent is a depositary of mineral resources, and it is. Some Asian countries are actually converting their reserves into African mineral resources. You know, talented people, development is rapid. Yes, the population is still poor, it is clear, we are all well aware of that, but the progress is rapid.
You know, we all live our lives the same way, and this applies to you too: we get up in the morning, we go to work, we go home from work. And those who are working professionally, including the media community, those people, of course, can see what is happening in the world. The world is changing rapidly.
Take Indonesia. Its potential is enormous; it has a huge potential. Not to mention India, China – everyone knows about that. Brazil. Africa. There are countries that are real leaders. I cannot say that the future of the world is about Africa – no, the world is diverse. But Africa has vast potential.
So, of course, we should use everything that has been built up since Soviet times, these very good, trust-based relations, and work in a new way.
Yes, we did a lot of things unilaterally back then, but it was impossible to do otherwise. But it all matters, including in practical terms. For example, we have built many power plants, many steel works and infrastructure. These facilities need to be modernised, renovated and developed further – and it is easier and cheaper and more efficient for us to do this at our domestic, even if Soviet, facilities. There is all this practical groundwork that we must work on. In some places we are doing it.
But now, you know, our African friends are not asking for any handouts. Moreover, both at the first summit, and then in the bilateral format between summits, and at this summit, many people said: we are not here to ask for anything. And it is true. There has not been a single direct request: give us this, give us that – no, everyone is trying to find projects that would be mutually acceptable and interesting for both sides. This is a change, and such a serious one at that.
But everyone remembers what happened during their struggle for independence. So these two or two and a half days, I should say three days, I was very pleased to see that… There are different people, of course, different countries and different policies, but in general the African continent is extremely friendly and positive towards us. This is an important foundation we can use to build business relations as well.
Our trade volumes may be small, but the potential is immense. In fact, grain and the like are not the only commodities they are interested in – I will talk about it in a minute, it is also important because many people suffer from malnutrition there; 600 million people do not have power supply – 600 million people live without electricity. But the potential is huge. Many are interested not just in grain, but in agriculture in general, in developing it, in building factories, mastering innovative agricultural technology, agricultural equipment, building fertiliser plants. They are not simply saying “give us some fertiliser,” which would not be bad in itself, of course, but they want to go further and build these plants. Moreover, they are ready to open up their countries to our investment and create an empowering environment, enabling our businesses to build their plants, gain a foothold in the region and make money there.
The same applies to energy. There is a lot of demand for nuclear power. Many countries have reached a point where they can use nuclear energy. This is what they want and can do.
They are also interested in exploring opportunities in the space sector and are actually working on this matter. You know, this is happening with the developing countries all around the world… Just look at Asia. Only recently it was impossible to imagine that something like that would be happening in certain countries, but today, they are carrying out space missions. This is happening very rapidly. We must make sure that we do not waste these opportunities, especially since the Soviet-era legacy gives us a big advantage here.
The atmosphere was very relaxed and friendly in every sense of the word. These people want to work with us. As for us, we must do everything to move in this direction, and this is what we will do. I have already listed certain economic sectors. It goes without saying that we will support them whenever we can, and will keep providing humanitarian aid, etc.
There is a lot of demand for working together on security matters. Africa still suffers from terrorism. This is a challenge for many regions and countries there. We know all too well that stability at home is a must in order to promote economic development, while there can be no stability without security. It is for this reason that they want to continue working with us and are sincere about it. This includes military-technical cooperation. Outside pressure has done nothing to scare them away. They are working with us by buying our weapons, while dozens and hundreds of African military personnel are enrolled in the Defence Ministry’s academies. They come to Russia to study. This is also a major asset in terms of our future relations because military specialists return home having acquired and preserved connections, contacts and built a certain level of trust, while also knowing how to operate and fight using our military gear and equipment.
This makes military-technical cooperation and arms supplies the next step. This is what is happening in India: there are a lot of matters on the agenda and they are technologically ready to launch production on their territory. Overall, we can be complementary in many spheres. Let me reiterate that this is exactly what the African countries are telling us: we are not here with a begging bowl – we came here in search of interesting joint and mutually beneficial projects.
Finally, the international affairs and the work at international venues. Occasionally, they need our support as a country that is a permanent member of the UN Security Council. Many were remembered. Honestly speaking, I myself forgot that we had supported them somewhere, but they remember it. They have not forgotten it. They say: “Thank you, you did this or that for us, you supported us.” Well, yes, you are welcome. And it is only later that I remember: it is true, we did support them.
But for our part, we are also sincere in our attitude towards Africa. You must know this rule: we like a person for the good we have done for them, and we hate a person if we have wronged them. This makes a lot of sense, because we see ourselves reflected in a person depending on what we have done for them. We did something good, and we look at him, recall [the facts], and feel pleased: good for me, how great I am! On the contrary, if we wronged a person, we say when looking at them: that is not a good person. And this is because we ourselves are not up to the mark in this case. They remind us of all the bad thing we have done.
As for Africa, there is nothing for us to blame ourselves for. We have done a lot of good and useful things for Africa. When we contact African leaders and they say as much, we always have a feeling that we are good people. This is true in this case and it is very good.
Question: Mr President, could you please tell us about the meeting on Ukraine yesterday late in the evening in more detail? What matters were of interest for our African partners? Was it possible to reach a consensus? Will we implement the African peace initiative or at least some of its elements? Is it possible that they will renounce it on their own after being given our assurances that we will supply grain to the countries which need it, including free of charge? Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Oh, no, there is no connection between the two points. When we say that the Soviet Union was helping African countries in their fight for independence, we should not forget that Ukraine was part of the USSR at the time, and that they generally have a good and sincere attitude towards Ukraine. I want to stress this point: they are sincerely thinking about what they can do to stop the conflict. They are doing this not only and not so much under external pressure as out of internal motives. Some of them spent their university years in Ukraine. Naturally, the training was in Russian, of course. And they did not like the nationalists in Ukraine – neither then, nor now. Some described how they had been treated by those nationalists.
But, just like any peace initiative, this initiative is helpful because it is focused on finding a peaceful solution to the conflict. There are certain provisions of this peace initiative that are being implemented after our meeting in St Petersburg six weeks ago. They are being implemented either way and yet, these initiatives, they contain ten provisions in total, including prisoner exchange, detained persons’ exchange, dealing with issues related to families and humanitarian affairs, children, and so on.
You must know this story about children’s kidnappings that was actually blown out of proportion. Our explanation is simple: there were no kidnappings; there were attempts and specific actions to rescue the children that were evacuated from the area of hostilities. Were we supposed to keep children’s homes under artillery fire? Of course, we evacuated the children.
There are cases of families that broke up due to family issues where one parent lives in Ukraine and the other… There was one case, in particular: the mother with the child lived in Russia; she died of an illness while the father was in Ukraine. The child was left alone. Of course, we are ready to hand the child over to the father. There is no problem with that. Any problems were made up.
We explain that, we have a Commissioner for Children’s Rights. I was surprised to hear that many know her name, Ms Lvova-Belova. I was slightly taken aback. They know about her. This means that people care and want to know more specifics of this matter. That was one of the provisions.
And yet, there are things that are very challenging or impossible to achieve. One of such provisions is ceasefire. The Ukrainian army is advancing; they are in the middle of a major strategic offensive. Why are we the party being asked to cease fire? We cannot cease fire when we are being attacked. When I point this out, people realise this.
Or, for example, beginning the peace talks. We never refused to begin talks. You know this, I constantly speak about this. We have never rejected peace talks. But the other side issued a decree prohibiting talks. I say: “What if we do not reject talks but they issued a prohibitive decree?” When I said this yesterday at the meeting, the other participants looked at each other and realised they could not insist. Both parties must agree for the process to begin.
There are other, simpler issues. But overall, my opinion is that the initiative can be used as a foundation for certain processes aimed at finding peace just like others, such as China’s peace initiative. It is not their intention to make the initiative incompatible or competing with the others.
The conversation in general was long and constructive. I think we spoke for almost two hours. Every participant had a chance to share their opinion on the matter.
I want to stress once again: we spoke from the position of friendship, trying to find realistic ways and opportunities to lower the tensions.
<…>
See also
Russia–Africa Summit
July 28, 2023
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 29, 2023, 23:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Interim President of Mali Assimi Goïta
Vladimir Putin met with Interim President of the Republic of Mali Assimi Goïta.
July 29, 2023
17:15
St Petersburg
3 of 5
With Interim President of Mali Assimi Goïta. Photo: Mikhail Metzel
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, colleagues,
I am very glad to meet you in person. We had contacts, talked on the telephone, but this is your first visit.
At the beginning of our meeting today, I would like to thank you for coming to this event, the Russia–Africa summit, in person. I think it will be useful for all of us. It was very busy, with all our meetings, contacts and signing of important documents. It is important for Russia to maintain this level of cooperation with our friends in Africa. I hope that our meeting and our work that lasted for two, and now even for three days, has been useful for our African friends, too.
At the same time, we regard Mali as a key partner in the region and share your interest in bringing bilateral relations to a completely new level.
In particular, we note the high intensity of political dialogue: our foreign ministers communicate on a regular basis. The second Russia-Africa International Parliamentary Conference in March was attended by President of the National Transitional Council Malick Diaw. He met with Speaker of the Russian Parliament’s upper chamber [Valentina Matviyenko] and State Duma Speaker [Vyacheslav Volodin].
Mr President, our objective is to step up our trade and investment ties. Unfortunately, we can see a certain drop here: our trade was not highly developed before, yet there has been a drop, though our trade with many African countries is on the rise. But there are successful examples, too. In March, we launched a joint project to mine lithium in the region of Sikasso: 75 percent was acquired by a Rosatom subsidiary.
Other promising areas include the development of the mining industry, energy, infrastructure and agriculture. All of this can be the subject of our joint work.
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
Whenever necessary, we try to support Mali both directly and through the relevant UN agencies. The Russian Government, in particular, has decided to allocate two million US dollars for purchase of food for our Malian friends through the UN WFP [World Food Programme].
We attach great importance, including as part of building up potential for the future, to our cooperation in education. We believe that this is important, because it creates a very good foundation for the future and, I hope, will help develop various industries and the humanitarian sphere after the graduation of specialists from our universities in the interests of Mali.
Malian specialists who graduated from Soviet and Russian universities – about 10,000 people – are still making a significant contribution to addressing problems of developing the republic’s statehood, national economy and social sphere.
We have decided to significantly increase the quota of Russian state scholarships for students from Mali for the current academic year: from 35 to 290.
We note that Russia and Mali have common approaches to key international and regional problems. Naturally, we hope that we will continue to stand together, like we do now, for compliance with international law and the preservation of the central role of the United Nations Organisation.
As far as I know, you have decided to stay a little longer in St Petersburg: tomorrow you will be able to attend the events held as part of Russia’s Main Naval Parade. I hope this will be interesting, too.
Thank you.
Interim President of Mali Assimi Goïta (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President.
I would like to introduce the members of my delegation.
(Introduction of the Malian delegation).
Vladimir Putin: Well then, our colleagues will introduce themselves too.
Go ahead, please.
(Introduction of the Russian delegation).
Assimi Goïta: Thank you, Mr President.
Your Excellency, President of the Russian Federation, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Russian delegation and members of the Malian delegation.
First, I would like to convey fraternal greetings to the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, a great friend of Mali, and to sincerely thank you on behalf of the people and the government of Mali, and from me personally, for the invitation and a warm reception accorded to my delegation.
Mr President, our participation in the second Russia–Africa Summit points to the importance we attach to our historical exchanges with the Russian Federation. They are based on common friendship, respect, equality and equal rights. The assistance that your country is rendering to our country points to the friendship of our countries and our fraternal relations. It also demonstrates your personal involvement in establishing peace and stability in Sahel and, particularly, in Mali.
The process of recovery that we started in Mali since the beginning of the political transition should allow us to lay a firm foundation for harmonious development, avoid negative events and meet the aspirations of our people. Thus, owing to the trust and determination of the people of Mali and our inclusive process, I had the honour of introducing the new Constitution of Mali on June 22. We have moved to the fourth republic. Mali remembers its history and its partner relations with such countries as Russia.
Mr President, I am very happy about the quality of our relations in the fields of infrastructure, agriculture, healthcare, education, science, geology, defence and security. We have four agreements on the economy, on higher education; this is an indication of our common striving to increase and raise the level of cooperation.
I would like to repeat how much I appreciate our trustworthy relations and military partnership with your country, which has allowed Mali to restore sovereignty and preserve the integrity of its territory. They also enabled our defence and security forces to act completely independently in upholding our borders.
Mr President, I would like to sincerely thank you for the grain shipments to my country. This points to the solidarity that your country displays towards our country as part of your decision to help Mali. Our country is one of the main recipients of Russian grain.
Numerous African countries, especially Mali, are suffering from the unprecedented pressure from several countries that are all but ready to introduce sanctions against us for our partnership with Russia – for our sovereign choice. We are stunned by this neocolonialist practice that must be curbed through a concerted effort at the international level. The Malian people sincerely appreciate the support of the Russian Federation because we are finally seeing in these serious, difficult times who our true friends are.
I would like to express solidarity with the Russian people for the sake of friendship between our countries because this friendship is sincere and free of any attempts to use it as a political tool. I would like to assure you that my people and I are always ready to work with you and the Russian people in order to promote our bilateral cooperation for the benefit of our people.
Thank you.
<…>
See also
Russia–Africa Summit
July 28, 2023
Geography
Mali
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 29, 2023, 17:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Interim President of Burkina Faso Ibrahim Traore
Vladimir Putin met with Interim President of Burkina Faso Ibrahim Traore at the Constantine Palace.
July 29, 2023
14:40
St Petersburg
4 of 6
Interim President of Burkina Faso Ibrahim Traore. Photo: Alexei Danichev, RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, colleagues,
First of all, I would like to thank you for accepting our invitation and finding the opportunity to take part in the work of the second Russia–Africa summit. I think you will agree with me: the meeting was useful and diverse; people expressed their opinions, and these opinions were different, but all the same, all the work was carried out in the spirit of friendship, mutual understanding, and a search for solutions to any issue; moreover, an interested search.
During the summit, various areas of cooperation between Russia and the African continent were discussed, and at today’s meeting, we will be able to compare notes on topical issues of bilateral cooperation and outline plans for their further development.
Bilateral ties between Russia and Burkina Faso have traditionally been friendly. Last year we celebrated the 55th anniversary of diplomatic relations. We know that people in Burkina Faso treat Russia with sympathy and interest: Mr President, I saw and heard this from you yesterday in your short speech.
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
For our part, we also pay great attention to developing relations with Burkina Faso. In particular, we have decided to reopen the Russian embassy, which was closed back in 1992. I am sure that the work of the Russian embassy will give an additional boost to the development of our relations.
Our political dialogue is regular. In December 2022, the Prime Minister of your interim government made a working visit to Russia. Talks between our defence ministries were held in June. Interparliamentary ties are expanding, which I find important, too.
We are ready to work together to develop trade and economic cooperation. Our trade is not extensive yet, even in terms of Russia-Africa relations, but I believe we will discuss it today: there is room to grow.
Work is underway on agreements, too. Corresponding documents are being developed in the sphere of civil aviation, sport, mutual recognition of education and qualifications.
We will continue to assist Burkina Faso in training personnel in civilian professions in Russia. In the 2023/24 academic year, 10 state scholarships have been awarded to Burkina Faso. If you are interested, Mr President, we will consider the possibility of increasing this quota.
Our countries coordinate closely on topical issues on the international agenda. We can see the good level of interaction at the UN and other international organisations. In June, the Russian Government decided to contribute 10 million US dollars as voluntary assistance to the UN World Food Programme for humanitarian assistance to a number of countries, 2.5 million US dollars of which will go to Burkina Faso.
Mr President, friends, we are sincerely pleased to welcome you to Russia, and I am glad to meet with you today.
Thank you.
Interim President of Burkina Faso Ibrahim Traore (retranslated): Good afternoon, everyone,
Mr President, it is a great honour for me to take part in the second Russia–Africa Summit. I would like to note the friendship between the Russian and Burkinabe peoples at this important stage. Russia is now conducting the special military operation and let me assure you that our people support you and your government.
Yesterday, we held a number of meetings and noted the diversity of the various problems we are facing. Today, this morning, we will be able to talk more about the issues of our bilateral relations.
You talked about the Russian Embassy, the Soviet Embassy that was closed in 1992, but we have already taken a number of steps to reopen it. I hope this will be done as soon as possible, whether it is an embassy or a Russian military mission.
At present, our subregion is going through difficult times. It has found itself in a zone of turbulence. We want to change our policy. Some of our traditional partners are turning their back on us, and we see who our true friend is. This is Russia that supported us in the colonisation era and continues supporting us now.
You must have learned during the summit about the developments in Niger. In that country, the military also made an initiative on assuming that nation’s leadership and, of course, this has a direct bearing on us. I talked about this yesterday in my remarks.
I also met a number of heads of state on the sidelines of this summit yesterday and they told me about the events in our subregion.
Some of them believe, without expressing it straight out, that this effect is linked with Russia and, as you can note, such reports continue circulating in the West. It is necessary to consider this moment in a diplomatic field. I think we must also look at the issue of sanctions – the sanctions must end. We want a multipolar world, and we stand for sovereignty.
At present, we are waging the same struggle as our partners – this is the struggle against terrorism. Our partners are different, and we are all neighbours, but we are unable to cooperate effectively at this time. We hope we will be able to do this eventually.
Today, we are holding a meeting with representatives of the Russian Federation Government. You have already noted that our trade relations are rather modest, but we are hoping they will grow fast. A Russian company and our businesspeople signed an agreement on the export of cereals before our arrival here. Earlier, we restored the airport in the area where this cereal grain is produced. It was exported to Germany and the Netherlands and further reexported to Russia. We decided to establish this air bridge for direct shipping in the future. Speaking of trade, we have many goods that may interest Russia, so I think we should encourage meetings between our ministers and businesspeople. I think you might be interested in our agricultural sector.
We would like to build a plant to process different materials. I know some companies are interested in this, and we can also talk about this in the context of our trade relations.
In this context, we certainly need to generate more energy – this is an important item on our agenda. If possible, we would like to have a small nuclear power plant for electricity generation in our country.
We have a strategic location – we are in the very centre of West Africa. This whole region is short of energy. I believe that if Russia, a certain company is established there, it would be able to generate energy for the entire subregion. We would like to think about how this could be done. We also had contacts on energy sources. We would like to see how we could restructure our imports. We did have contacts with some of your companies. They would like to enlist your support, and this applies to oil products as well.
There is also an issue of bitumen because we are building road infrastructure on a large scale. We are hoping for support for our producers. We would like to get your support in this regard.
<…>
See also
Russia–Africa Summit
July 28, 2023
Geography
Burkina Faso
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 29, 2023, 14:40
Text version