Events
Meeting with High Technology Championship winners
Vladimir Putin met with the winners of the High Technology Championship at the Intelligent Electronics – Valdai Innovative Scientific and Technological Centre (ISTC).
September 21, 2023
18:50
Veliky Novgorod
2 of 6
At a meeting with High Technology Championship winners. Photo: Sergei Bobylev, TASS
The High Technology Championship is an international professional excellence tournament, which is part of the national championship movement, Professionals. Veliky Novgorod hosted the finals, which included about 5,000 competitors, from September 18 to 21.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon!
I am delighted to see everyone, and I would like to congratulate you all – as I understand it, the winners of the competition are here. This was the first edition of this competition. I congratulate you all because the story of this championship begins with you, and you are the winners of the first edition, the first iteration of this competition.
I am sure that we will continue along this path, and will keep looking for young, talented, promising and successful young people like you.
Additional
All news about the trip to Veliky Novgorod
The fact that you have made it to the finals and won is all the more exciting because the competition was involved with the most interesting professional fields such as robotics, big data, and others that are equally important, fascinating, and promising.
Mr Kravtsov, the Minister of Education, is nodding his head. I know that he has promised not only to praise you, but also to ensure appropriate remuneration for your work. Money is certainly something anyone can use, and it will definitely benefit you because you can spend it on some of your immediate plans, things you were planning to do, like improve your professional skills.
I wish you success and all the very best. If you have any requests, please, you have my full attention – I am listening.
Go ahead, please.
Matvei Khrolovich: Good evening, Mr President.
My name is Matvei Khrolovich, I am a fourth-year student at the Novgorod Agrotechnical College and a participant of the geospatial digital engineering competence.
My friends and I are very happy to take part in the finals and achieve success in our competences. It is very important for those who study the professions of the future. The finals were organised to a high standard, and everything went very well. But all participants want to know if the championship will be held annually.
Vladimir Putin: We will ask the chief organiser. I think such events should be held [annually].
Mr Kravtsov?
Minister of Education Sergei Kravtsov: Yes, we will definitely hold it every year, Mr President, because it is very important for the kids. And in St Petersburg, professionals…
Vladimir Putin: It will be in November, right?
Sergei Kravtsov: In November. We will hold the championship in the same professional areas of the future in Veliky Novgorod every year.
Vladimir Putin: So, we have the answer.
Matvei Khrolovich: Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for expressing an interest in the event and for achieving success. Please, sit down but keep the microphone.
You said you are a student – what are you studying?
Matvei Khrolovich: Geospatial digital engineering.
Vladimir Putin: What it is you do exactly? It is difficult for me to even imagine…
Matvei Khrolovich: It is building 3D models using the data from maps and images taken by drones.
Vladimir Putin: To what end?
Matvei Khrolovich: They can be used practically everywhere, from agriculture to the defence sector.
Vladimir Putin: I understand. And you study agriculture and will work in this field, correct?
Matvei Khrolovich: We had an agricultural plot of land, took an image and drew a detailed map.
Vladimir Putin: Your college overall specialises in agricultural education, right?
Matvei Khrolovich: Yes, it is an agrotechnical college.
Vladimir Putin: Where in agriculture can such equipment be used?
Matvei Khrolovich: I think that if a local, Russian producer needs help in drafting maps, some geodesic information, we will be happy to help.
Vladimir Putin: You know… it is just a first signalling system response: if you simply wait for customers, you might have to wait for a long time. You should look for areas of potential use.
Matvei Khrolovich: Yes, we are ready to do it.
Vladimir Putin: You need to excite curiosity, spread information as much as you can and search for partners, this is what you should do. Not just create something interesting and appealing that might be sought-after. If nobody knowns about it, it would be difficult to promote these developments. People should know about them, and you should work on promoting them.
I will need to talk to my colleagues, including in this case [Minister of Agriculture] Mr Patrushev, and others. We just spoke with RosGeo, and they are very much interested. We should help them promote these ideas and developments.
Matvei Khrolovich: Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Please.
Ivan Vasilyenov: Good afternoon, Mr President.
My name is Ivan Vasilyenov. This championship is the first major event where I have seen such a lot of innovative equipment. In principle, everything has been arranged here very well. I enjoyed taking part in this kind of event very much.
I would like to ask a question. The championship is being held in eight competencies in the most promising areas. Which of them do you think will enjoy the greatest demand in the future?
Vladimir Putin: You see, we have recently made an arrangement with the Government that it will create a special agency to determine the most in-demand competencies and professions. Everything is changing so rapidly, and we need new competencies to deal with these changes. The planned government agency will revise these preferences every five years.
This also concerns what your colleague, the one on your right, has said just now about agribusiness and everything related to it, including genetics and agrarian and other subjects such as self-driving vehicles, robotics, high technology in the broad meaning of the word, artificial intelligence, big data, and so on.
However, I would like to repeat that the Government will update the list every five years.
Ivan Vasilyenov: Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: You are welcome.
Please, go ahead.
Dmitry Shleg: Good afternoon, Mr President.
My name is Dmitry Shleg and I am from the Novgorod Region.
Today many colleges have modern equipment and laboratories, but the buildings themselves are often below the mark. Many students who come from far away live in poor conditions.
I know that schools are being renovated now. Is it possible to plan a renovation programme for colleges and dormitories?
Vladimir Putin: We have a construction and renovation programme for schools.
(Addressing Sergei Kravtsov) How many of them have been renovated, two thousand?
Sergei Kravtsov: Yes, two thousand.
Vladimir Putin: And we plan to renovate nearly 6,000 more in the next three years.
As for colleges, the financial aspect of their functioning is above all the responsibility of regional governments. There is a relevant programme in the Novgorod Region, as the governor has told me just now.
(Addressing Andrei Nikitin) How many dormitories have you renovated? Will you carry on with this project?
Novgorod Region Governor Andrei Nikitin: We will renovate four dormitories this year and 10 by 2026, if we receive federal support, of course.
Vladimir Putin: Of course, the federation and the federal budget are there to offer their support. We are about to complete the programme targeting schools. I think that we will definitely continue this work, and in fact we are doing this by supporting the regions. After all, there is currently a lot of demand for training specialists at vocational training colleges because the economy and the industrial sector really need specialists of this kind, and they must be well prepared for their jobs and use the latest equipment during their studies.
Of course, despite its fundamental importance, good equipment is not enough for a valuable experience. I am talking about the buildings hosting these institutions. Young people must benefit from an adequate living environment, there is no question about it. This will be our objective. But let us recall Lomonosov: he travelled by foot, or so they say. He did not take the metro, or a plane, but walked on his way to acquiring new knowledge. This does not mean that everyone must be doomed to living in shabby shacks just because this was the way Lomonosov lived. We understand this and will gradually move towards resolving this issue.
We have just attended the opening of a major and very good centre in Kaluga which is expected to train 10,000 specialists per year. We will open more centres of this kind moving forward. Of course, we will discuss this from a regional perspective with my colleagues, even though we already pay a lot of attention to this matter. Still, we have a lot to accomplish here.
Dmitry Shleg: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: What are you studying?
Dmitry Shleg: My degree programme at the Novgorod Construction College is titled Construction and Operation of Buildings and Structures.
Vladimir Putin: Construction. Do you know about the rapid expansion that has been going on in your sector lately? We achieved an all-time high in housing construction: never before neither during the Soviet era, nor in the post-Soviet period, have we had so much construction – never. And we have every reason to expect another record-high performance this year, and a very positive result next year too.
And construction does not boil down to housing. There are also industrial sites and road construction. This is a very interesting profession. It can shape a vocation and a destiny: some choose to be doctors, others to build something. These are the most noble causes. This goes to say that you made a very good choice.
I wish you every success.
Dmitry Shleg: Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Is that it?
Once again, congratulations on your performance.
The minister said that St Petersburg will host another major competition under the Professionals brand in the second half of November, in late November, in fact. Maybe some of you will also apply for it and I have no doubt that some of you will win this competition in St Petersburg.
Once again, congratulations. I wish you all the best.
Take care, you guys.
Goodbye.
See also
Visiting the Intelligent Electronics – Valdai Innovative Scientific and Technological Centre
September 21, 2023
Geography
Novgorod Region
Topics
Children
Professional training
Regions
Persons
Kravtsov Sergei
Nikitin Andrei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2023, 18:50
Text versionEvents
State Council Presidium expanded meeting
In Veliky Novgorod, the President chaired an expanded meeting of the State Council Presidium on the issue, “Development of the Labour Market in the Russian Federation.”
September 21, 2023
21:45
Veliky Novgorod
12 of 12
Expanded State Council Presidium meeting on the development of the labour market in the Russian Federation. Photo by Iliya Pitalev (”Rossiya Segodnya“)
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Exactly one year ago, here in Veliky Novgorod, with the participation of leading universities and companies, we discussed in detail a project aimed at implementing advanced engineering schools, one of which is already operating at Novgorod University. It is training specialists, including for the Intelligent Electronics – Valdai innovative centre. Its residents – high-tech companies – are developing their projects in the region and creating new jobs.
I would like to express my gratitude to Governor Andrei Nikitin and his team for this systematic and thorough approach. Opportunities are being created for local residents, for young people to learn advanced skills, to work in promising sectors, and to earn decent wages. In turn, businesses can now hire trained and highly skilled professionals and rely on them as they work to expand companies, industries, and the country’s economy as a whole.
See also
All news about the trip to Veliky Novgorod
In fact, using professional language, this is what the creation of a modern labour market is all about. This extended State Council Presidium meeting is dedicated to this issue. Regional leaders – I welcome all of you, colleagues – as well as representatives from the Government and business associations are attending.
I would like to emphasise at the beginning that our meeting is taking place amid record-low unemployment numbers. This is one of the most important benchmarks in describing the effectiveness of our economic policy and its social dimensions. At the same time, it shows that economic growth may face shortages of labour resources. Well, we are aware of what “may face” means. It is already facing this issue, and we must take this into account and respond with a long-term perspective in mind.
Importantly, the declining unemployment rate is of a system-wide and structural nature and is partly the result of our consistent efforts in a number of areas.
First of all, new jobs are being created and distance working formats are being developed through investment projects and the overall development of the territories in the Russian regions that have a long record of high unemployment, which includes a number of regions in Siberia, the Far East and the North Caucasus Federal District.
Evidently, there is still a shortage of jobs in certain cities and towns, and even entire metropolises. In addition, special attention should be paid to the regions with low-quality employment where people appear to be employed, technically, yet their wages and incomes are grossly lagging behind the country’s average.
I would like to ask Ms Golikova to review each of these cases at the interdepartmental working group on restoring the labour market and to come up with appropriate support measures.
Furthermore, the Government is already implementing a special programme which has already brought about an incremental but consecutive decrease in youth unemployment which is, as you know, higher than overall unemployment rates in the country.
Extra effort must be applied in this area because, according to all forecasts – which are positive – in the coming years and for over a decade, the number of young people in our country will be growing. Thus, tentative assessments and analyses forecast that the country will have 8.3 million people aged 20–24 by 2030 whereas in 2035 that number will reach 9.7 million, which is 2.4 million more than today. (Addressing Tatyana Golikova.) Is that right, Ms Golikova? This is correct.
This is, of course, a landmark result of our efforts in demography policy– we have been doing everything we can in recent years, and we continue to do so now.
Now you and I must multiply our efforts, and create all the conditions for young people to have a successful career start. I will definitely return to this subject in terms of vocational education.
In general, I would like to note that measures to develop the labour market should continue to support our steps in demography; all these things are, no doubt, interconnected.
For this purpose, we are already implementing programmes to improve the qualifications of women who are on maternity leave, and starting next year, 2024, if a woman goes to work, the family will continue to receive a child allowance for children up to the age of 18 months. We have discussed this in the Government for a long time, the decision has been made, and I hope that all this will work as we hope. The allowance benefit for caring for disabled children will also be maintained if the parents or guardians who provide such care are employed on a part-time basis.
I will speak separately about such an important issue as support for veterans of the special military operation, including in improving their skills, in getting a new profession, in finding a job, in organising their own business. All of this is part of the special state foundation, Defenders of the Fatherland. I visited the Novgorod branch office of the foundation today and saw how it worked. I expect that the foundation branches are all active in all regions of Russia and that they will increase the pace of this work; it is a very important area.
I would like to emphasise that we need to do everything possible to ensure that our heroes – in the full sense, they are heroes, our men who are fighting on the front lines – feel that they are needed, that they can work, that they can provide for their loved ones, their families, and that they can create families. There are a lot of young people there. The family members of the comrades we have lost should receive the same full support. Once again, I ask the regional leaders to keep all these issues under their personal control. Colleagues, I have emphasised this many times. I see your efforts, and they are yielding results, and I ask you to keep up this standard.
Colleagues,
I have given full details on supporting people who encounter problems with job searching. I would certainly like to hear your opinions, ideas and suggestions on the issue – how we can help people regardless of their age and some other circumstances related to their previous training.
Speaking at the St Petersburg Economic Forum I already said about our system-wide task which is to transition to a high-wage economy within the current decade. This is a major benchmark for Russian companies and, obviously, for the authorities at each level when they draft economic and social policy measures.
What is the current situation like with the wage level and wages overall? In June, they grew by 10.5 percent in real terms.
This is good, and we must uphold this trend and make it sustainable, and to do that, the state must help people of all ages become more professional, qualified, and therefore more competitive in the labour market. This is about creating real opportunities for people to enrich their knowledge base and gradually update their skills and competencies. Our entire system of education and, of course, upbringing should be aimed at this.
First of all, the plans in place must continue to be carried out in a systematic and consistent way. I mean programmes for school construction, renovation and equipping, promoting continuing education as well as improving the quality of facilities, equipment and resources at colleges, vocational schools and universities.
I have just met with young people who work at colleges. They were very modest although they are champions of our new competition, High Technology Championship, which holds a special place in this sphere. One of the issues is, of course, the living conditions. It is understandable.
I would also add that new approaches should be applied more aggressively in secondary and higher vocational education, namely, obtaining several qualifications within one course of study and even changing majors and specialties during the course of training.
I reiterate that we have introduced such improvements for the benefit of our young people so as to make them prepared for a career as best as possible and for them to have more opportunities to fulfil their potential both in different industries and in different regions of our country.
Let me emphasise that improvement efforts should be stepped up in all areas of education and professional training. For the results to be all encompassing, we must be clearly aware of which specialists our economy and companies will need in the short term – today, of course, and in the coming years. We must definitely factor in the emerging trends in technology and industry development.
With that in mind, every year, we will draft a five-year forecast of demand for personnel and professionals for all sectors of the economy. And of course, without input from our colleagues working in the real sector of the economy, in businesses and industry, we will have difficulty resolving this task. It must be a cooperative effort.
I am asking business executives, regional authorities and the Government to engage in this work – to create a modern and convenient mechanism that will allow us to draft such a forecast, by region, by industry, and by profession, and, which is very important, taking into account the national projects, infrastructure programmes and the prospects for the development of cities and entire territories, and also the investment plans of state corporations and private companies.
The first forecast must be released already next year, and we will use it to determine the parameters for personnel training for secondary and higher vocational education institutions. This planning must begin as early as the 2025/2026 academic year. In doing so, the results of the national ranking of educational institutions must be taken into account, primarily with graduate employment in mind.
I would like all our colleagues to hear me, especially the heads of our universities, colleges and vocational schools – the efficiency of your work will be largely judged by how much your graduates are needed by Russian businesses, companies and organisations. If a young person is unable to find a job while there is a personnel shortage in the country, a number of absolutely reasonable questions arise: does the economy need the specialists and competencies you are providing, and how well did schools and their teaching staff perform? And how well and fully were their graduates prepared for their future professions?
That is why heads of universities and colleges must have a gut feeling, as they say, about changes in the labour market, and promptly respond to them without waiting for a signal from above. You must work directly with those for whom you work, and establish concrete relationships with employers to this end, right in your own city and region.
We also expect Russian businesses to boost investments in promoting skills and competences of their future workers, managers, leaders and staff. We certainly realise that this process is ongoing, it is being organised. What we need is to constantly give it the attention it deserves.
As to the currently employed, an effective mechanism must be created with trilateral commitments of the employer, the worker and authorities in the student contract. Let me remind you that tuition will be paid for by the company so that the graduate will later carry out more highly skilled work which also means a higher wage. I want to stress that this mechanism is designed to help people acquire new skills and even professions throughout their entire life as the global onrush of technology demands.
Colleagues,
Raising people’s skills is a crucial factor in creating the economy and raising wage levels. Labour productivity growth must be treated as equally significant – it is a common truth and a basic condition.
First is increasing the investment activities of Russian businesses and further growing investments in capital assets. Let me remark, in passing, that investment growth continued in the second quarter to reach 12.6 percent year-on-year. This is a good number.
This positive trend must be supported by all means. To do that, all the instruments designed to support investment must be effective. I draw the Government’s attention to that, as well as the attention of our colleagues in the regions of the Russian Federation.
Second is streamlining industrial processes through the introduction of lean manufacturing technologies. There are big opportunities in this area.
Let me share a telling example with you. In five years, the total increment in added value for more than 4,000 businesses taking part in the Labour Efficiency national project was 306 billion rubles. Despite that, they did not have to recruit more people to achieve this result. All they had to do was to make better use of the human and technological assets at their disposal. This is how our colleagues delivered on this objective.
We need to make maximum use of these approaches across the economy and the social sphere, and have already set forth and issued the corresponding instructions for specific sectors. But let us be honest, not all of them have benefited from meaningful efforts along these lines. In this context, our colleagues in the Government must be more proactive and strive to achieve concrete results. We all understand that a lot has yet to be done in this regard, but as I have already said, there are positive examples which can serve as a model.
Third, we need to increase the level of automation by upgrading the equipment we use and making sure that it delivers better performance indicators, while also introducing robotics in manufacturing and the services sector, and using unmanned surface and air transport. Importantly, it must rely on Russian technology.
In addition to this, we need to make wider use of new technology, including AI-powered solutions. Let me reiterate that they must play a key role in transforming the labour market within the next decade.
For this reason, we need to place a bigger emphasis on studying information technology and artificial intelligence in our educational programmes and develop new educational formats such as the School 21 project, which was launched the other day in Veliky Novgorod. We have just visited it.
Colleagues.
Practical steps in all the areas I outlined must be an integral part of our economic policy; and of course, the regions, the federal centre, and businesses must act together here, as I have said.
I have been informed that Government officials and members of employers’ associations held a workshop these past two days to discuss specific initiatives submitted by the State Council commissions. I would like to ask you to share a detailed insight into these undertakings. This is where we will begin.
Mr Nikitin, go ahead, please.
<… >
Vladimir Putin: I would like to thank you for the time and effort you have invested in this, for sitting down together and brainstorming this issue of high importance for Russia’s economic and social development. It was very productive and very important.
Personnel is one of the key elements of the country's development. We talk about it year after year. And this is especially important for us today, because, as we can see, these outside restrictions imposed on us after 2014 as well as the new ones imposed now actually stimulate development. Yes, they might have slowed us down in certain aspects, and forced us to postpone action on our earlier decisions, as we say, to move them to the right on our schedule, to a later date. Nevertheless, new competencies and opportunities are emerging. And well-trained personnel is of the essence here.
All of the above is also complicated by another problem, a demographic problem. You are all well aware of this. But here, too, there are certain solutions that we cannot use effectively without modern production means and innovative technologies. If we use them, we may not need such a large labour force. I mean, we will definitely not need it, as it will be compensated by modern technology, robotics, artificial intelligence, the use of big data, and so on.
This might seem like a tangle of issues – the demographic challenge, modern technologies as a potential solution to labour shortages, and outside restrictions that hamper our progress and development – but this is the kind of a Gordian knot we do not need to cut. We really can untie it quite effectively and elegantly. We can do this, but we need to keep this issue under review at all times – I mean personnel training.
Thank you very much for your work, especially Mr Nikitin, who led this group at the State Council, and all our colleagues who contributed to it.
Thank you.
Geography
Novgorod Region
Topics
Demographics
Labour market
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 21, 2023, 21:45
Text version