Events
Awarding the Order of Honour to President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov
Vladimir Putin presented the President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov with the Order of Honour, a state award of the Russian Federation.
October 12, 2023
12:55
Bishkek
2 of 2
Awarding the Order of Honour to President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
Sadyr Japarov
was awarded the Order of Honour by Executive Order of the President of Russia for his significant contribution to promoting relations of strategic partnership and alliance between the two countries and the development of integration processes in the Eurasian space.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends.
I am very happy to present a high state award of the Russian Federation, the Order of Honour, to the President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov.
Mr Japarov,
You have made a great deal and continue to make extensive efforts for the comprehensive development of the strategic partnership and alliance between Russia and Kyrgyzstan. You have been a firm advocate of strengthening Russia-Kyrgyzstan relations that are invariably based on the principles of equality, mutual respect and consideration for each party’s interests.
It will not be an exaggeration to say that, to a great extent, many significant achievements in the development of Russia-Kyrgyzstan ties in politics, the economy, science, education and culture – the issues we have just discussed – have become possible thanks in no small part to your active position and personal involvement in achieving results.
We know you as a committed supporter of consistently advancing Eurasian integration and strengthening the atmosphere of partnership, trust and cooperation in the region we share.
I am convinced that you will continue to pay as much attention to the relationship between our countries, and you can count on equally constructive engagement and interest from Russia.
Congratulations on receiving the Order of Honour. I wish you good health, success in your government service and simply all the best.
Thank you.
(Vladimir Putin presents the award.)
President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Japarov: Mr President, thank you very much for presenting me with such a high award of the Russian Federation.
Frankly, your decision came as a total surprise to me and was great news. I consider this award as recognition of the high level of Russia-Kyrgyzstan relations. I am also committed to doing my best to develop our integration potential within the CIS, the CSTO and the EAEU.
Thank you once again for this award.
See also
All news about the official visit to Kyrgyzstan
October 12 − 13, 2023
Geography
Kyrgyzstan
Topics
Foreign policy
State decorations
Persons
Japarov Sadyr
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 12, 2023, 12:55
Text version