Events
Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation
The President spoke at the opening of the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation.
October 18, 2023
06:35
Beijing
4 of 9
The heads of delegations at the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. Photo: Grigoriy Sisoev, RIA Novosti
Also attending the event as part of the Russian delegation were Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak
, Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko
, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office and Press Secretary of the President Dmitry Peskov
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Presidential Aide Yury Ushakov
, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to China Igor Morgulov, and Economic Development Minister Maxim Reshetnikov
.
The Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation is being held in Beijing on October 17–18, ten years after the initiative was launched.
* * *
The President’s address at the opening ceremony
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Xi, my dear friend,
Ladies and gentlemen,
First of all, I would like to express gratitude to President of China Xi Jinping for inviting me to the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation.
See also
All news about the visit to China
The forum is being held on the 10th anniversary of the initiative Mr Xi advanced, a truly important and global idea that is spearheaded into the future, towards creating a fairer multipolar world and system of relations. It is a global plan, without a doubt.
I agree with the President of China that the Belt and Road idea ties in logically with multilateral efforts to promote creative and constructive interaction throughout the international community.
We pointed out on numerous occasions that Russia and China, just as the majority of other countries, share the striving for equal and mutually beneficial cooperation towards universal, sustainable and lasting economic progress and social welfare based on respect for the civilisational diversity and the right of every state to its own development model.
The Belt and Road initiative is based on these fundamental principles and fits in very well with the integration processes that are ongoing in many regions. It also corresponds to the Russian ideas of creating an integration contour that will ensure the freedom of trade, investment and employment and will be complemented with interconnected infrastructure.
It also rhymes with our idea of creating a greater Eurasian partnership as an area of cooperation and interaction among like-minded nations and the alignment of various integration processes, such as the Belt and Road Initiative, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), which Russia is successfully developing with its post-Soviet partners.
It is notable that Russia and China have reached a practical agreement on a concurrent and coordinated development of the EAEU and the Belt and Road Initiative and a non-preferential agreement on trade and economic cooperation between EAEU member states and the People’s Republic of China. A joint commission has been established to align our efforts to implement this agreement. In February 2023, we adopted an expanded roadmap, which provides, in part, for the development of relations between the EAEU and China in trade policy and the digitisation of transport corridors.
I would like to note that the integration agenda in the broadest possible sense of the word is an integral part of Russia’s national development strategy, the strengthening of our economic, technological and financial sovereignty, as well as the modernisation and expansion of infrastructure.
The President of China spoke in his address about this form of development in various parts of the world. Colleagues, friends, I would like to tell you about what we are doing in this area in the Russian Federation. I hope and believe that this is important for very many participants in this forum, because Russia is the largest country in the world in terms of territory, and so the connectivity of all the partners across Russia is of great importance to our partners and friends.
I will mention some of our forward-looking plans we are already implementing, which harmoniously complement other infrastructure projects in Eurasia, including those that are being implemented within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative. Taken together, they will allow us to create an integral transport and logistics network and to diversify freight traffic through more effective, reliable and safe transportation.
For example, we are building the North-South international corridor in European Russia, which President Xi has mentioned. It will connect Russian ports on the Baltic and Arctic seas to ports in the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean. Seamless rail connectivity, as professionals say, will be ensured throughout this route, from Murmansk in the north of Russia to Bandar Abbas in Iran.
Another north-south transport artery will run via the Urals region and Siberia. Its main elements are the modernisation of the central part of the Trans-Siberian Railway, including the West-Siberian Railway line running across several regions of Siberia, namely the Omsk, Novosibirsk, Kemerovo and Tomsk regions and the Altai Territory. The other elements are the construction of the Northern Latitudinal Railway, as we call it, towards the ports on the Arctic Ocean and the Yamal Peninsula in the north of the Krasnoyarsk Territory, and a new North Siberian Railway from the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area towards our largest railway network comprising the Trans-Siberian Railway and Baikal-Amur Mainline.
At the same time, we are working jointly with our foreign partners to build railway lines from Central Siberia towards the south of the country, towards China, Mongolia and the ports of the Indian and Pacific oceans.
Lastly, we are planning to build one more Arctic-South corridor in the Far East; we are currently preparing the necessary elements. It includes a railway line running from the Baikal-Amur Mainline to Yakutia, across the large Siberian rivers Lena and Amur , the Pacific Railway Line, the modernisation of motorways, and the creation of deepwater terminals in the eastern part of the Northern Sea Route.
These north-south transport corridors in European Russia, Siberia and the Far East will allow us to directly connect the Northern Sea Route and to integrate it into major logistics hubs in the south of our continent on the Indian and Pacific oceans.
As for the Northern Sea Route, Russia offered its partners the opportunity to actively use its transit potential. More than that, we are inviting all interested countries to get directly involved in its development, and we are ready to provide reliable icebreaker escort, communications and supplies. As soon as next year, navigation for ice-class vessels along the entire length of the Northern Sea Route will become possible all year round.
The creation of the international and regional logistics and trade routes I have mentioned objectively reflects the deep changes that are ongoing in the global economy and the new role the Asia-Pacific and Global South countries and other centres of growth and development are playing now.
In this context, Russia, which will assume the rotating chairmanship of the expanded BRICS next year, has advanced the initiative of establishing a permanent transport logistics commission within the framework of this group. This commission of BRICS members, partner countries and other interested states could focus on the development of the entire complex of international transport corridors.
I would like to add that these issues are on the agenda of the Transport Week, which is held in Moscow every year. Friends, we invite professionals from your countries to take part in the next such event, which will be held in the Russian capital in mid-November.
In conclusion, I would like to express confidence that the Belt and Road Initiative, the Russian priorities I have presented and the constructive and ambitious proposals by other countries, including those that are attending this forum, will help us find collective and truly effective solutions to really important current regional and international issues.
Colleagues, friends, when a major project is launched, everybody hopes that it will succeed. However, to be honest, it is difficult to expect that all its elements will be successful, considering the global scale of the initiative advanced by the President of the People’s Republic of China 10 years ago. Our Chinese friends are working successfully. We are happy for them, because this also concerns many of us. The President of China has just now presented a large programme of constructive actions aimed at achieving a common result.
I would like to wish success to the People’s Republic of China and the President of China in the implementation of these plans, and to all of us in the implementation of our projects. I wish all the best to all of you.
Thank you.
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 18, 2023, 06:35
Text versionEvents
Russian-Chinese talks
Vladimir Putin and President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping held talks in Beijing.
October 18, 2023
09:55
Beijing
1 of 4
With President of China Xi Jinping. Photo: Sergey Guneev, RIA Novosti
The meeting was held in an expanded format with the participation of the delegations. After the meeting, the international consultations continued in the working breakfast format.
Earlier that day, the President of Russia took part in the opening ceremony of the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation.
* * *
Beginning of Russian-Chinese talks
President of China Xi Jinping
(retranslated): Mr Putin, my dear friend, welcome to China for the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. Participation in each other’s major international events is a good long-term tradition for our countries.
Mr President, it is your third visit to the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, which demonstrates Russia’s support for this initiative.
During my visit, at your invitation, to Russia in March – this was my first visit after the re-election – we set a landmark for the development of bilateral relations and held a meaningful exchange of views on a number of current international and regional issues.
I am pleased to note that the governments, ministries and agencies, as well as regions of China and Russia have been working hard to implement the important agreements we have reached.
Mutual trust in our political relations is steadily growing. Close and effective strategic collaboration is being maintained. Bilateral trade has achieved historic records and is approaching the target of $200 billion we have set.
Mr President, during the ten years since 2013, the two of us have held 42 meetings and established good business-like relations and a strong personal friendship.
Next year marks the 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Russia.
The Chinese side is ready, together with Russia, with keen understanding of the trajectory of history and following the currents of world development, to invariably rely on the fundamental interests of the peoples of the two countries, to continuously enrich bilateral cooperation with the content necessary for the sake of the two countries’ development and prosperity in this new era; exercise a sense of responsibility as great powers, contribute to international justice and impartiality, and promote the common development of the whole world.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Xi Jinping, dear friend,
See also
All news about the visit to China
I am happy we are having this new meeting. Allow me once again, this time personally, to congratulate you and all our Chinese friends on the 74th anniversary of the establishment of the People’s Republic of China.
Next year will be an anniversary year for both your country and the diplomatic relations between our countries. On October 2, 1949, the next day after the establishment of the PRC, the USSR was the first to recognise new China.
As you have just said, your state visit to Russia took place in March, the first foreign visit after your re-election. We understand that this is a special sign indicating the level and nature of relations between the People’s Republic of China and Russia.
One and a half years after my last visit, all of us, our large delegation, are in Beijing again. We can see that the city is developing and prospering, and we are very glad for our Chinese friends.
Your idea of promoting wide-ranging cooperation between the countries of the historical Silk Road, which was put forward ten years ago, has gained momentum.
As I just said in my remarks at the forum, each country leader, when planning something in the area of economy or development, seeks to implement the plans that have been devised. Yet, we are never 100-percent sure how this will turn out. But our Chinese friends, China under your leadership, and you personally are highly successful in your endeavours. We are very glad for you and for all those involved in this wide-ranging collaboration, because everyone gains advantages from it.
You have just outlined a very strong and extensive programme to further promote your road and destiny idea intended to benefit, in effect, as you say yourself, the whole of humankind. We sincerely wish you success in this noble undertaking.
Under the difficult present-day conditions, it is particularly relevant to maintain close foreign policy coordination, something we are doing now. Today, we will discuss all of this, including, and primarily, our bilateral relations.
You have just mentioned our bar – our objective of reaching $200 billion in trade this year. If we look at the year-on-year figures – we analysed this yesterday evening – the 200-billion target was reached between this day a year ago and today, and this bar will certainly be exceeded by the end of the calendar year. Therefore, we are advancing very confidently on the bilateral plane as well.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 18, 2023, 09:55
Text versionEvents
News conference following the visit to China
Concluding his working visit to the People's Republic of China, Vladimir Putin answered questions from Russian journalists.
October 18, 2023
13:05
Beijing
1 of 5
At a news conference following the visit to China. Photo: Sergei Savostyanov, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening.
I am here to answer your questions. Fire away please.
Pavel Minakov: Good afternoon, Interfax news agency.
You have been in conversation with Mr Xi Jinping
for more than three hours today. Can you tell us what you talked about? How do you see the prospects for bilateral relations against the current backdrop including the regional conflicts – Ukraine, and the Palestinian-Israeli conflict? It is no secret that many countries are involved in them in one way or another. Today, everyone was shocked by the strike on the hospital in Gaza. How do you think these factors could influence the current relations with China and their development prospects?
Additional
All news about the visit to China
Vladimir Putin: The first part of the question was what our conversation focused on. You said yourself that the President of China and I talked for three hours – that is too long to explain in full now. We discussed the entire bilateral agenda, which includes many issues – economics, finance, political interaction, and joint work on international platforms.
We discussed the situation in the Middle East at length. I informed the President about the situation in Ukraine in detail. So probably, as we talked for three hours, I would also need three hours to review every detail now. We do not have as much time as that, but we do not need it: I have given you the main highlights. So much for the first part.
Second, regarding the influence of external factors and conflicts on the development of Russian-Chinese relations, all these external factors amount to common threats, and they strengthen Russian-Chinese interaction.
I am optimistic about specific prospects. In March, we reached certain agreements and set forth eight clauses. Right now, the prime ministers will have to clarify these clauses in Bishkek, and they will sign a plan for our interaction until 2030. This is a very good, specific and substantial plan.
I would also like to draw attention to the fact that both sides are doing this without any procrastination or administrative red tape. To be honest, this is something unusual even for the government agencies of any country, and this is not just about China and Russia. As a rule, these large-scale events, charted by us until 2030, are quite specific and it usually takes bureaucratic agencies several months to work them out. We have done this rather quickly, giving us reason to believe that we will also implement them quite fast.
The trade volumes that we are discussing today are really impressive. Actually, we set the task of attaining $200 billion in 2024. When we formulated this objective in 2019, I will tell you frankly that few people believed that this was realistically possible because our trade volumes totalled $100 billion at that time; and they have already reached $200 billion, earlier than planned.
I would like to note one more aspect: I said that Russia was China’s sixth-largest trade partner. In reality, even judging by purely formal criteria, this is not so, Russia occupies a higher position because this includes Hong Kong and the second part of China, all this amounts to China, and, strictly speaking, we do not have to heed these two factors. Keeping in mind that trade turnover between neighbouring countries (I mean South Korea and Japan) is always higher than between other states, then in effect, speaking of non-regional countries, we are China’s second largest partner after the United States, and we have outstripped the Federal Republic of Germany in this respect.
Go ahead, please.
Viktor Sineok: Viktor Sineok, Izvestia.
You must have discussed not only the Belt and Road project with your Chinese colleague, but also the Greater Eurasian Partnership initiative. Do you think these initiatives are complementary or is there a competitive dimension?
Vladimir Putin: Look, I have already said this, and I am speaking with absolute sincerity. Look at what China's Belt and Road initiative is – it is a global initiative and concerns practically every region of the world, all of them: the American continent, Africa, Europe, our neighbours in the Asia-Pacific region, and Russia as well.
What is called the Eurasian Partnership is a local-scale project. It is a vast space and it is an absolute priority for us, for Russia, but it is not as global as the Chinese initiative. Therefore, without any doubt, one complements the other, and we have said as much in our statements. We have worked on this from both sides.
Moreover, we are interested in the Belt and Road Initiative’s development. Because when we develop our own infrastructure (the Trans-Siberian Railway, the BAM, the Northern Sea Route, the North-South corridor, our railways and road networks, and so on), which I mentioned speaking at today’s plenary session, if this infrastructure grows along with the Chinese Belt and Road, it will add a synergistic effect to the efforts and investments that we are now making in developing Russian capabilities.
We are interested in this, and we will work together. There is no competition here.
Konstantin Panyushkin: Good afternoon.
Konstantin Panyushkin, Channel One.
Just before your visit to Beijing, you held a telephone marathon with the heads of Middle Eastern states. Could you please share your impressions following those calls? Did it feel like a new major war in the Middle East could be avoided? And has your stance changed now? What do you think today, after the monstrous strike on the hospital in Gaza and the Islamic world’s reaction?
Vladimir Putin: With regard to the strike on the hospital – the tragedy that happened there, this is a horrible event, which killed hundreds and left hundreds more wounded. Of course, this is a disaster for such a thing to happen in this place, especially considering its humanitarian mission. I do hope that this will serve as a signal that this conflict must end as quickly as possible. In any case, there must be a push paving the way towards the launch of contacts and talks. This is my first point.
See also
Telephone conversations with President of Syria Bashar al-Assad, President of Iran Ebrahim Raisi, President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas and President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
October 16, 2023
Telephone conversation with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu
October 16, 2023
Second, regarding the impressions I got during conversations with the five regional leaders, these were important talks, and timely too. Let me tell you what matters the most here without going into details: I have an impression that no one wants this conflict to continue or expand, or the situation to escalate.
In my opinion, regarding the main actors – there is virtually no one there who wants the conflict to expand while others are wary of something and are not ready to turn it into a full-scale war. This is the impression I got. This is very important.
Pavel Zarubin: Good evening.
Pavel Zarubin. Rossiya television channel.
The President of Ukraine basically boasted that Kiev has not only received but has started to use the long-range ATACMS missiles from the United States. Washington has also confirmed that it did covertly supply the Kiev regime with these missiles.
Vladimir Putin: What do you mean by “covertly confirmed”?
Pavel Zarubin: I mean that it supplied these missiles in secret.
As far as we understand, these missiles can significantly expand the range of the possible strikes, including by reaching deep into Russian territory. How significant a change will this be? How will Russia respond?
Vladimir Putin: First, this is of course a harmful development and creates an additional threat.
Second, we can fend off these attacks, make no mistake about that. War is war, and I did say that they pose a threat. This is rather obvious. What matters the most here is that this cannot bring about any radical changes along the line of contact. It is impossible. This we can say for sure.
And, finally, the next point: this is yet another mistake on the part of the United States – for several reasons.
First, if they did not supply weapons, they would be able to say in the future: “Had we supplied everything we could, the situation would have changed, but this would have led to more unnecessary casualties. Good for us – we did not do that.” But they did, and there will be no effect. This is a mistake for this reason alone.
And, finally, Ukraine, in this sense, gains nothing either. This simply prolongs its agony. They have started yet another announced and expected counteroffensive in the Kherson sector – without any effect so far. Losses there are, but no result, like previously in Zaporozhye and other sectors. Therefore, this is also a mistake from this point of view.
And, finally, a larger and highly significant, if so far imperceptible mistake is that the United States is becoming more directly involved in this conflict. It is becoming involved – this is an obvious thing. And let no one say that it has nothing to do with this. We believe it has. Plus, all of this is happening against the background of the Middle East conflict and exacerbating tensions.
They have upped and dragged two carrier task forces to the Mediterranean. I want to say – what I am going to say and inform you about is not a threat – that I have instructed the Russian Aerospace Forces to start patrolling the neutral zone over the Black Sea on the permanent basis. Our MiG-31 aircraft carry the Kinzhal systems that, as is common knowledge, have a range of over 1,000 kilometres and can reach speeds of up to Mach 9.
Andrei Kolesnikov: Kommersant newspaper. Good evening.
Could you please tell me whether the talks you had can give us any reason to expect, or at least to assume, that the Israeli-Arab conflict may finally lead to the creation of the State of Palestine? And how could this happen, considering that there are basically two antagonistic Palestines today?
Vladimir Putin: You are going too far in talking about “two antagonistic Palestines.” There are differences within the Palestinian community, between the West Bank and Gaza. But I would not go as far as to call them antagonistic towards one another. The way President Abbas responded to these developments demonstrates that he has no enmity towards the Gaza Strip and those in charge of the situation there. This does not mean however that there is no need for them to build closer contacts. This does not mean that the Palestinian community, or society, does not need to strive for its unity. Of course, this is what the Palestinians must strive for. But this is their business. We cannot manage this process.
As for the Palestinian statehood, we believe – and this is our principled position which has nothing to do with the ongoing crisis even though it did push this issue to the surface – nevertheless we have always advocated the creation of a Palestinian state that would be independent, sovereign and with a capital in East Jerusalem. We have been talking about this for a long time, the international community has been talking about for a long time, since 1948, in fact, when the objective to create two independent sovereign states was put forward. I do not know whether today’s crisis can help deliver on this task. If this were the case, it would be a step in the right direction since it would create conditions for achieving lasting peace down the road. After all, as demonstrated by today’s crisis, there is no way you can use momentary economic handouts in the way attempted by the United States, in lieu of addressing fundamental political issues dealing with the future of the Palestinian nations. We need to address fundamental political issues.
Anastasia Savinykh: The TASS News Agency.
Yesterday you met with Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orban, who, following that meeting, said that he had raised the issue of the possibility of a ceasefire in Ukraine. He said that the conversation with you left him discouraged. Can you tell us what you told him and why Orban lost his optimism altogether?
Did you have a chance to talk with President of Serbia [Aleksandar] Vucic?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I had a brief meeting with Vucic. He is concerned about the situation in his region, around Serbia, too. We share this concern.
As for my meeting with Prime Minister Orban, you said that he has run out of optimism. I am not sure about that. I believe that Mr Orban is a pragmatic and, in principle, optimistic person. I do not think that he has lost his optimism altogether.
But my views regarding that part of our conversation are well known; there is no secret about that. When he asked me about the possibility of a peaceful settlement, I said what I have said many times before, that if the Ukrainian side really wants to negotiate, it should not make any theatrical gestures but instead start by cancelling the presidential executive order prohibiting talks [with Russia].
It is rumoured that they are presumably ready for negotiations now. Several high-ranking officials in charge of foreign policy, who only recently spoke about inflicting strategic defeat on Russia on the battlefield, have changed their tune and say that such issues should be decided through peaceful negotiations. It is a reasonable change, a shift in the right direction, which Mr Borrell is talking about as well. I can commend him for that, but it is not enough. Practical steps must be taken if there is a real desire to hold negotiations.
As for Prime Minister Orban, he is often accused of pro-Russian sentiments, which is nonsense. He has no pro-Russian sentiments, and he is not a pro-Russian politician. He is a pro-Hungarian politician. He is mostly criticised not for taking a stand that differs from the positions of other European leaders, but for having the courage to uphold the interests of his own people. Many political leaders in modern Europe lack the courage to do this, they do not have this kind of courage. They envy him, which is why they are criticising him.
The last question, please.
Murad Gazdiev: The US President said Russia has already lost the war.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent.
Murad Gazdiev: He says the US is now aiming to unite all of Europe against Russia.
Vladimir Putin: Great.
Murad Gazdiev: How should this statement be assessed?
Vladimir Putin: If Russia has lost the war, why are they sending the ATACMS in? Why doesn’t [the US] take back the ATACMS and all its other weapons [and why doesn’t President Biden] come eat some pancakes and drink some tea with us? If the war is lost, what are we talking about? What are the ATACMS for? Ask them this question. Hilarious.
Alexander Yunashev: May I?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, of course, please.
Alexander Yunashev: About tea parties, if it is no secret. You left the building where the talks were two or three hours ago, and you have only just arrived here. Perhaps President Xi gave you a tour of Beijing, just as you invited him to your place to have tea by the fireplace before? If I may ask.
Vladimir Putin: Well, yes, we had a small lunch, a business lunch with foreign ministers from both sides, with aides, and then President Xi suggested speaking in private. He and I had a private conversation indeed, just talked over a cup of tea. We talked for another hour and a half, maybe two hours, and discussed some very confidential issues face to face. It was a very productive and informative part of our meeting.
Pavel Zarubin: Excuse me, what you said about patrolling over the Black Sea, would that not be called another threat from Russia?
Vladimir Putin: I emphasised that this is not a threat. But we will perform visual control, and weapons-based control over what is happening in the Mediterranean Sea.
Thank you very much. Have a good day. Thank you for your attention.
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: October 18, 2023, 13:05
Text version