Events
Meeting on draft federal budget for 2024–2026
The President held a videoconference meeting on the federal budget for 2024 and for the 2024–2026 planning period.
September 18, 2023
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
At a meeting on draft federal budget for 2024–2026 (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
, Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
, Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Dmitry Grigorenko
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank Alexei Zabotkin.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
The Government is completing its work on the draft federal budget for the next three years: 2024 and the 2025–2026 planning period.
Let me stress that the current economic situation is stable and balanced in general. My colleagues and I discuss this constantly, almost every day: both with the Prime Minister and the economic bloc. Today we will meet separately with Mr Mishustin and talk.
I would like to say upfront that the situation with a number of key indicators is better than earlier estimates and forecasts.
As a reminder, in April GDP growth for this year was expected to be at 1.2 percent. Initially, some drop was expected, but then the forecast was corrected: 1.2 percent was suggested, but in fact we have already exceeded this level, and by the end of the year, GDP growth could reach 2.5, and maybe even more, to 2.8 percent.
Consumer demand is increasing with positive dynamics. Heavy industry is growing steadily, primarily due to the manufacturing industries.
Even despite the effect of last year’s high base, investment in fixed assets continues to grow – plus 12.6 percent year-on-year.
As I have said, the situation is generally stabilising in terms of executing the current federal budget. In August, it was once again at a surplus. Yes, in general, so far – since the beginning of the year – there has been a slight deficit, but in August there was a surplus, and not for the first time.
It is important that non-oil and gas revenues are significantly higher than last year. In turn, oil and gas budget revenues recovered approximately to last year’s levels in July-August, and, considering the situation on global markets, continue to see growth.
Of course, it is clear that one of the main problems now is related to the rate of inflation. The main factor here is the weakening ruble, and it is necessary to clearly understand the reasons and make appropriate and prompt decisions, without delay. I know that the Government and the Central Bank will work professionally and, importantly, in a coordinated manner.
In fact, we can say that the recovery stage of the Russian economy is complete. We have withstood absolutely unprecedented external pressure and the sanctions onslaught of some ruling elite in the Western bloc: the ruling elite in individual countries that we call unfriendly. Russia’s GDP has reached 2021 levels, and now it is important to create conditions for further stable and long-term development.
In this regard, the new federal budget must be estimated objectively based on state priorities and national interests, as well as on the strategic and current plans in all the key areas. And, of course, first, it is necessary to guarantee strict fulfilment of all the state's social obligations to the people.
I know how much work the Government has already done: it is simply a lot in its scope and complexity. The draft budget has been prepared, and in general, I think it turned out to be well balanced. I know about all the disputes within the Government on these issues, but there is not much time left before a package of relevant draft laws is to be submitted to the State Duma, and we need to put a final point on it. It is necessary to use this budget effectively to finalise and specify some details.
As per tradition, we will begin our discussion of the draft budget with the macroeconomic forecast it is built on and a general assessment of economic development challenges.
Please, Maxim Reshetnikov, you have the floor.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2023, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Inauguration of Moscow Mayor
Vladimir Putin attended a ceremony for the inauguration of Sergei Sobyanin as Moscow Mayor.
September 18, 2023
12:20
Moscow
8 of 10
At a ceremony for the inauguration of Sergei Sobyanin as Moscow Mayor. Photo: Grigoriy Sisoev, RIA Novosti
The inauguration ceremony took place at the Moscow Zaryadye Concert Hall. According to the results of the elections held on September 8–10, Sergei Sobyanin won more than 75 percent of the votes. The term of office of the capital's mayor is five years.
* * *
Speech at Sergei Sobyanin’s inauguration as Moscow Mayor
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, colleagues, Mr Sobyanin,
I am glad to personally congratulate you on assuming the office of Moscow Mayor.
During the recent election, over 75 percent of the electorate cast their votes for you. This high level of trust is proof of the Muscovites’ broad support and their approval of your initiatives, plans and, most importantly, the results of your work.
Your visible achievements are many, but the most visible and significant accomplishment that is clear to everyone, is the truly ground-breaking upgrade of the transport system. We talk about this a lot, and you pay a lot of attention to it. I mean public transport above all, of course. Its convenience, accessibility and speed have already been appreciated by residents of the entire metropolitan region, and by everyone who comes to Moscow.
The capital is open for the implementation of entrepreneurial initiatives and the introduction of advanced ideas and projects. Here, new standards are being set in housing construction and in the introduction of digital technologies and services.
Moscow is strengthening its position as a powerful scientific and industrial centre of Russia. The industries of the future are actively developing, including robotics, instrument engineering and the production of new materials.
Schools, clinics and hospitals get a makeover. Positive changes are actively taking place throughout the social sphere. Focus is placed on supporting people of older generations and, of course, our heroes, defenders of Russia.
The city is consistently and persistently creating a progressive and comfortable environment. Everything necessary for work, innovation, creativity and leisure is being done, and here Moscow is noticeably ahead of many other world capitals — I want to emphasise this — noticeably ahead of many of the world’s significant agglomerations.
Of course, the current high pace of transformation obliges the city leadership to set even more complex and ambitious goals for the next five years. I believe that the Moscow management team will only move forward, focus its efforts on the most important areas, achieve the successful implementation of new ideas and solutions and make a significant contribution to the achievement of common national development goals.
In this context, let me note that the Moscow City Hall, the Government of Russia, the federal authorities have built an effective cooperation system. I hope that in the future this joint work will continue to be as constructive and successful, and, what is most important, that it will achieve high results.
Using the capital’s experience among other things, we will continue to upgrade the transport infrastructure in all the regions of Russia, providing new opportunities for people, encouraging the economy and industry, and promoting Russia’s technological sovereignty.
I know that there are major plans to improve Moscow healthcare. I would like to stress that Moscow has all the necessary resources to act in the interests of the entire country.
Moscow must maintain and strengthen its leadership position in education; help schoolchildren and students from other regions to achieve the same results; and create conditions for scientific and engineering research, for the development of areas that are critical with regard to the country’s independence.
I know that the next five years will be a time of active promotion of the relocation programme in Moscow, and this will also mean a new, higher quality of life for people, comfortable and up-to-date housing, streets and squares.
Let me stress that the capital – and this is its special role – sets practices and standards that are always interesting and useful for all territories of Russia.
As we know, in 2014 you did a lot for people from Crimea and Sevastopol, and today the capital is helping to establish normal life in the new regions of Russia, taking patronage over Donetsk and Lugansk.
Mr Sobyanin, colleagues, I would like to sincerely thank you for this necessary and noble work.
Mr Sobyanin, colleagues,
I wish further success to you and your entire team.
Thank you, all the best. Thank you so much.
Geography
Moscow
Persons
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 18, 2023, 12:20
Text version