Events
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, with permanent members of the Security Council.
October 27, 2023
14:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 3
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
, Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
, and Director of the Federal Service of National Guard Troops and Commander of the National Guard Troops Viktor Zolotov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
Today we will discuss the circulation of arms in the Russian Federation. This issue has always been important – I will not go into details – but especially today, considering the conditions the country is living in.
We need to think about how weapons and ammunition come to the Russian Federation illegally, including, by the way, from the territory of Ukraine; not to our troops, but to Russian territory. We have to look at these channels, at how agency control measures are organised, and what must be done to additionally strengthen the legislative base.
In fact, we have an entire complex of issues here. We will hear reports from two speakers today: Mr Zolotov and Mr Kolokoltsev. I would like to ask our colleagues to make detailed reports, and everyone else to join the discussion of the draft decision produced at our meeting today.
Go ahead, please.
<…>
See also
Security Council News
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: October 27, 2023, 14:00
Text version