Events
Meeting on Murmansk LNG project
The President held a meeting on the implementation of the Murmansk LNG project.
September 4, 2023
20:15
Sochi
7 of 10
Meeting on Murmansk LNG project Photo: Alexei Nikolskiy, RIA Novosti
The meeting was attended by Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Minister of Energy Nikolai Shulginov
and Chairman of NOVATEK Management Board Leonid Mikhelson.
* * *
Russian President Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues,
As agreed earlier, today we will discuss issues related to the development of the energy sector, including promising areas like the production of LNG – liquefied natural gas.
Before we start discussing issues on the agenda, I would like to congratulate all current and veteran workers of Russia’s oil and gas sector and the gas industry in general, on their professional holiday, which was marked yesterday, on September 3. I want to thank hundreds of thousands of people employed in this very important sector for their loyalty to the traditions of hard work, and their intense and effective work for the benefit of the whole country.
Your success, your significant achievements are making an enormous contribution to the development of the Russian economy and help ensure that large companies, small businesses and life support systems run smoothly, and that the needs of the domestic market are met reliably and in full.
Despite the blatantly hostile actions of some countries, illegitimate and endless restrictions and sanctions, the Russian energy sector, our oil and gas companies, in general, feel confident, are making good progress and are successfully handling the tasks set before them, including in foreign trade, finding new and reliable partners and remapping logistics routes.
Russia is implementing a range of major oil and gas exploration and processing projects that are crucial for the further development of the fuel and energy complex and many regions of the country. These projects include Vostok Oil, Yamal LNG, Arctic LNG 2, Amur Gas Processing Plant and Petrochemical Complex, and Sakhalin projects. New fields are being developed, such as the Kovyktinskoye deposit, which was launched in December 2022.
Our strategic oil and gas pipelines, including the Power of Siberia, ESPO and TurkStream, enjoy demand. I discussed this today with our colleagues from Turkiye. Given the good prospects for expanding cooperation with friendly countries, we are considering the possibility of speeding up the construction of the Far Eastern Route and the main gas pipeline Power of Siberia 2. A gas hub project in Turkiye is also being developed, and we discussed it with our colleagues today.
Overall, in the current challenging conditions, Russia has not only reaffirmed its energy self-sufficiency and independence, as well as resilience to external shocks, but also continues to hold key positions in the global energy sector. We are working confidently and self-sufficiently, without exaggeration.
At the same time, I want to emphasise that the main goal of the oil and gas industry, and the entire domestic energy sector, is to meet our country’s needs. This includes the interests of our economy and all Russian consumers, including entrepreneurs and businesses, as well as households. This task involves continuing the important gas infrastructure development programme, maintaining a balance between the efficiency of production, processing and retail sales, and ensuring the availability of corresponding products and services for industry and households while preventing significant price fluctuations.
These tasks need to be monitored at all times and addressed through dialogue with the business community.
Now, let us move on to the topic of our meeting today.
Let’s give the floor to NOVATEK CEO Leonid Mikhelson.
<…>
Topics
Energy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2023, 20:15
Text versionEvents
Russia-Turkiye talks
Talks between Vladimir Putin and President of the Republic of Turkiye Recep Tayyip Erdogan were held in Sochi.
September 4, 2023
13:20
Sochi
8 of 16
With President of the Republic of Turkiye Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Photo: Sergey Guneev, RIA Novosti
The Russian side at the talks is represented by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Deputy Prime Minister – Russian Co-Chair of the Mixed Intergovernmental Russian-Turkish Commission on Trade and Economic Cooperation Alexander Novak
, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office – Presidential Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov
, presidential aides Maxim Oreshkin
and Yury Ushakov
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev
, Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
, Director of the Federal Service for Military Technical Cooperation Dmitry Shugayev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Management Company Kirill Dmitriev and Director General of the State Atomic Energy Corporation Rosatom Alexei Likhachev
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
Welcome to Russia and Sochi.
We agreed to hold this meeting long ago, but this is our first personal meeting since the elections in Turkiye. I have already had the pleasure of congratulating you on the election results, and I would like to do so again during our personal meeting, although several months have already passed.
We continue to maintain the momentum in promoting relations between Russia and Turkiye, facilitated by your direct involvement. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that last year our trade increased by over 80 percent – by 86 percent, I think. This positive trend spilled over into the first half of this year, even if it has not been as massive as last year. But there is still positive momentum.
Our relations are becoming increasingly diverse and not only within the sectors where we have been working together for quite a while, such as agriculture and energy, but also in other areas, which makes me happy.
We have made headway, and I hope that we will complete our talks on establishing a gas hub in Turkiye in the near future, so as to make the energy situation in the region more stable and well-balanced. I believe that this will prove beneficial.
As I have already said, we have expanded opportunities for delivering agricultural produce from Turkiye’s farmers to the Russian market. This volume is very impressive and continues to grow.
We continue to expand our relations in the iron and steel industry, and these relations have very good prospects all the same. As I have said, we are moving very confidently in the sphere of energy. The main suppliers and consumers on both sides have reached agreements, and I hope that this trend will continue, and that we will witness this in the near future.
We continue to build the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. Today, Turkiye has become a member of the international club of nuclear states, following the delivery of the first batch of Russian nuclear fuel to Akkuyu. We will launch the first power unit next year, all goes according to plan. There are some interesting options for continuing our cooperation here. Today, a very large team of skilled specialists (nearly 25,000 people) continues to work at the NPP.
We have a lot to discuss in the context of maintaining regional security. Of course, we will not overlook issues linked with the Ukraine crisis. I know that you intend to raise questions about the grain deal. We are open to talks on this issue.
Of course, you and I have accomplished a lot for the situation in Syria. I know that the Republic of Turkiye perceives this as a highly sensitive issue; you and I are in the know. To my mind, we should formalise the most important achievements within the framework of the Astana format, and the platform itself, too.
Of course, there are other countries in the region, I mean the Libyan issue. There are many other bilateral and international issues, and we will certainly focus on them today.
Thank you very much for accepting our invitation and for arriving in Sochi today.
President of the Republic of Turkiye Recep Tayyip Erdogan
(retranslated): Mr President,
First of all, I want to note that this invitation marks a different stage in relations between Russia and Turkiye. This visit is taking place against the backdrop of a war between Ukraine and Russia and the situation that is taking shape in this regard. And your invitation… we are glad to be invited and my delegation is glad to be invited.
Our relations, relations between Turkiye and Russia, especially in terms of foreign trade turnover [are making good headway]: it has reached 62 billion US dollars. We have set the task of bringing foreign trade turnover to 100 billion US dollars, and this makes us happy.
Today, the heads of the central banks [of Turkiye and Russia] are present here and they will hold a separate meeting. This will be an important step forward in trade relations between our countries, a step towards trade in national currencies.
As for the Akkuyu NPP, the developments there are quite positive. The work is still in progress. As you said, the project employs a workforce of nearly 25,000. The developments regarding the first power unit are very good, as we said before. As for a nuclear power plant in the city of Sinop, I think we will take another step in this direction and build a new plant in that city. Creating a gas hub in the Thrace region will make our relations even richer in content.
On the other hand, the tourism industry is yet another important aspect of relations between Turkiye and Russia. Today, Russians outnumber all other guests coming to our country as tourists.
At the same time, I want to note that the most important step… We can say that the world’s attention is on the grain deal. The world public wants to know what will come out of it and what the result will be. I think and I believe that after our contacts and during our news conference we will send the necessary message to the world, especially to the least developed African countries. A step in this direction will be of much importance.
The military and defence industry and the energy sector are two other crucial areas. We have made steps, particularly with regard to natural gas. It is of paramount importance for us that we have good relations with Russia in this field. I think that we will promote our gas-related arrangements.
I also want to note the following: the summer season and forest fires… It is common knowledge that you sent two aircraft to fight wildfires. They did help us a lot. But could we please increase the number of aircraft by at least two, because the danger is still there and the fires pose a great threat? These aircraft are very useful in the context of our efforts to extinguish fires.
I want to thank you again on behalf of my new cabinet ministers. I hope that our meeting and contacts will be of use for our countries and regions.
Thank you very much for the attention.
Following the talks in expanded format with the participation of delegations, the conversation continued one-on-one, in a working breakfast format.
Vladimir Putin: Mr President, you mentioned the effort to fight forest fires.
I want to say that after the terrible earthquake that hit Turkiye, we were among the first to lend a hand to the Turkish people and help ordinary people and the [quake] victims. The same refers to fighting wildfires.
All of this goes to say that you and I have brought Russian-Turkish relations to a very high level, and this is influencing all areas of our collaboration.
I suggest that we work in the following way. First, we will give the floor to the co-chairs of the Intergovernmental Commission, who will provide a general overview of what is going on in our relations, primarily in trade and the economy. Next, possibly, [we will ask] the foreign ministers [to speak].
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2023, 13:20
Text versionEvents
News conference following Russian-Turkish talks
Following the Russian-Turkish talks, Vladimir Putin and President of the Republic of Turkiye Recep Tayyip Erdogan held a joint news conference.
September 4, 2023
17:05
Sochi
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
We are pleased to welcome the President of Turkiye to Russia once again.
I want to note that Russia-Turkiye multifaceted cooperation, which is based on neighbourliness, partnership and mutual benefit, is successfully developing across all areas.
See also
Russia-Turkiye talks
September 4, 2023
As always, today's talks took place in a constructive and business-like atmosphere. We have reviewed in detail the key aspects of Russian-Turkish cooperation in security, the economy, politics, culture and the humanitarian sphere and have exchanged views on current issues on the international and regional agendas.
During the discussion of bilateral economic ties, we were pleased to note the continued growth of trade. In 2022, it increased by 86 percent and reached a record-breaking 62 billion US dollars, though some estimates give an even bigger figure, while in the first half of this year it increased another 4 percent.
There is a trend towards wider use of national currencies – the ruble and the lira – in trade. Thus, the share of the dollar and the euro in mutual transactions is consistently decreasing. Our respective central banks are working closely to develop a correspondent network between the financial and lending institutions of both countries.
Russian-Turkish cooperation in the energy sector is of a genuinely strategic nature. Rosatom continues to build Turkiye's first nuclear power plant, Akkuyu. It will consist of four power units of Russian design with a total capacity of 4,800 MW. Approximately 25,000 Russian and Turkish nuclear specialists, engineers and technicians are working day and night to ensure that the first power unit is launched next year.
In April, Russian nuclear fuel was sent to Akkuyu, and the nuclear power plant received the official status of a nuclear facility. This status was granted by the IAEA. Thus, Turkiye has joined the club of countries with peaceful nuclear technology.
Our countries also enjoy close interaction in gas supplies. Last year, Russia delivered 21.5 billion cubic metres of gas through the TurkStream and Blue Stream pipelines to Turkiye. In January-August 2023, it delivered over 10 billion cubic metres of gas.
I want to emphasise that Russia has always been and will be a reliable, responsible gas supplier. We will continue to provide the Turkish economy with this cheap but highly efficient and environmentally friendly fuel. Moreover, we are ready to export gas to third countries that are interested in it through Turkiye.
To that end, we have suggested creating a regional gas hub in Turkiye. Gazprom has submitted a draft road map for the project to BOTAS. The plan includes creating a joint working group, agreeing on a legal regulatory framework for hub activity, and developing the processes for the trade and transfer of imported gas.
Russian-Turkish cooperation in agriculture is expanding quickly. Last year, mutual food deliveries reached 7.4 billion US dollars. This year, the growth continues, increasing by 19 percent in January-July.
Naturally, we also discussed the development of tourism. Last year, over 5 million Russian tourists visited Turkiye, with another 2.2 million Russians visiting the country in the first six months of 2023. We hope that this dynamic will be maintained. Our relevant agencies will continue working with the Turkish authorities to make sure that Russian nationals’ time in the country is safe and comfortable. Our Turkish friends are doing everything in their power to that end.
I also want to remind you that Russia has always striven to provide friendship and partnership assistance to Turkiye, including assistance efforts in the aftermath of natural disasters. Soon after the February’s devastating earthquake, our country was one of the first to send rescue and medical units to Turkiye. We also responded promptly to the country’s request to provide the Russian amphibious aircraft Be-200 to fight wildfires on the Aegean Sea coast.
And of course, we paid a lot of attention to current international issues, in particular to the situation around Ukraine. Naturally, we talked about the suspension from July 18 of the Black Sea Initiative on grain exports from Ukrainian ports. Mr President emphasised this.
As I have said many times, we were forced to make this decision – I mean Russia was forced – because the Western countries had blocked the part of fulfilling the grain deal that ensured Russian agricultural products access to global markets. Meaning, they refused to lift the sanctions on the export of our grain and fertiliser, on resuming shipments of agricultural machinery and spare parts to Russia, on removing barriers to logistics and chartering ships, and on banking services and insurance for this shipping.
And while Russia clearly provided security guarantees for shipping under this deal, the other side used humanitarian corridors for terrorist attacks against Russian civilian and military facilities. This could no longer be tolerated.
It is also clear that suspending the deal did not affect the global food market – I would like to highlight this – whatever is said about it. Grain prices continue to decline. There is no physical shortage of food. Yes, there are problems with fair distribution, but this has nothing to do with the grain deal.
We do not see anything surprising in this because, if Ukraine’s share in world grain exports was 5 percent, it remained so, but will naturally decrease in the current conditions.
The West, to put it mildly, deceived us about the humanitarian goals of the Black Sea Grain Initiative, that is, providing assistance to developing countries. Because of the 32.8 million tonnes of cargo exported from Ukraine, over 70 percent – I want to emphasise this again – went to the wealthy countries, primarily to the EU, whereas the share of countries in real need of food aid accounted for only 3 percent, that is, less than one million tonnes.
I would like to reaffirm our principled position: we will be willing to consider the possibility of resuming the grain deal – I said this once again to Mr President today – and will do it immediately, as soon as all the agreements set out in that deal on lifting the restrictions on the export of Russian agricultural produce are fully implemented.
Despite the obstacles, Russia will continue to export food and fertiliser, to contribute to price stabilisation and to improve the situation in global agricultural industry. To this end, we have proposed, among other things, to supply one million tonnes of grain from Russia at a preferential price for processing in Turkiye and then transporting it without cost to the neediest countries.
In this regard, we are also counting on assistance from the State of Qatar which, for humanitarian reasons, is willing to support the countries that are most in need. By the way, we are close to finalising agreements with six African countries on food supplies free of charge and even offer free shipping. The talks are almost complete, and shipping will start in the next couple of weeks.
During the talks, we discussed the Syrian settlement as well. We highly value our cooperation with the Republic of Turkiye in this sphere. In particular, we are interacting constructively within the Astana format, which is currently the most effective mechanism for international consultations on Syria.
Importantly, we share fundamental approaches to resolving the Syria crisis, including respect for its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. We understand that before we can deploy efforts on the comprehensive recovery of Syria, national reconciliation and accord must be achieved. We believe that the Syrians themselves should determine the future of Syria without any ready-made solutions or models imposed on them from outside.
When exchanging views on the situation in Libya, we reaffirmed our commitment to a comprehensive settlement of the long-standing crisis in that country through negotiation and a search for compromise solutions, while avoiding outbreaks of violence and preventing the disintegration of the Libyan state.
Overall, I believe that the meeting to compare notes on the above and other regional issues was quite productive.
To sum up, I would like to once again express my gratitude to President of Turkiye Recep Tayyip Erdogan for our joint work, and for the substantive and productive dialogue. Without a doubt, today's talks will further promote the Russian-Turkish partnership in all areas.
Thank you.
President of the Republic of Turkiye Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): Mr President, members of the delegations, media representatives,
I warmly and respectfully welcome all of you.
Once again, I would like to express my gratitude to Mr Putin for his kind invitation. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Russia for the support it provided during the earthquake that occurred on February 6 and during the wildfires. I would like to express my gratitude for this support.
The last time I met with Mr Putin in person was in Astana during the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia. Since then, we have been in close contact through telephone conversations.
Today, we had both a one-on-one meeting and a meeting with participation of our delegations. We assessed the steps that can be taken to further strengthen our multifaceted cooperation, especially in the areas of trade, energy, agriculture and tourism.
Last year, trade between our countries reached 69 billion US dollars. I want to emphasise that we are confidently moving towards the 100-billion-dollar mark.
Last year, 5.2 million Russian tourists visited our country, and in the first seven months of this year, 3.5 million Russian tourists have visited our country. I believe that this number will increase in the remaining five months of this year.
The Black Sea Initiative. We are pleased that Russia is opening an office in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.
I believe that Russia, and particularly the Black Sea Initiative, has played a key role for the poorest countries. This initiative has been like a lifeline for the poorest countries.
The alternative proposals placed on the agenda did not meet expectations in terms of security and other aspects. Our Russian friends have made clear their expectations in this regard, and we emphasise these expectations at different platforms.
I shared with my colleague and my friend that we are ready to hold such consultations. We will prepare a new package of consultations with the UN. I believe that we will be able to achieve results in this regard. Turkiye will make every effort in this regard, and we believe that we will achieve a result on this deal in the shortest time possible.
Media representatives,
We do everything we can to establish lasting peace and stability in our region. In every speech, I emphasise that there are no winners in war, and there are no losers in peace. We adhere to this principled approach. Earlier, we held direct negotiations between the parties; as always, we are ready to contribute to this.
Mr Putin and I discussed other regional and global issues as well. In this regard, we assessed the developments in Syria, the South Caucasus, Libya and Africa.
We are developing bilateral relations based on the principles of neighbourliness, friendship and sincerity, aiming to serve the interests of our countries and our region. We have observed and continue to observe, and we see the benefits of Turkish-Russian relations built on this foundation in a wide space. Our close contacts with Russia will continue to contribute to resolving regional and global issues.
I especially want to mention the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. As you know, construction is underway. I would like to highlight the second step in this area: in Turkiye, in the city of Sinop, we discussed the construction of a second nuclear power plant with my dear friend. With this step, Turkiye will undoubtedly break new ground.
In closing, I would like to once again thank Mr Putin for the hospitality he extended to my delegation and to me. I hope my visit will be beneficial to our countries and the region.
Presidential Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov: Turkish and Russian journalists can now ask one question each.
Let us start with our guests. Turkish journalists, please go ahead.
Ali Jura (retranslated): Ali Jura, Anadolu Agency.
A question for both presidents. President Erdogan mentioned that significant diplomatic efforts were being made in the Russia-Ukraine conflict. During this meeting, was there any discussion of a ceasefire or sitting down for talks?
(In Russian.) Mr Putin, I have a question for you in Russian. How important is it to continue the Black Sea Initiative for Russia and the Black Sea region? Do you believe it should be continued?
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Regarding President Erdogan's efforts to resolve the crisis around Ukraine, he has always paid great attention to this issue, and he did so today, including in our one-on-one conversations.
We are aware that agreements were reached and draft documents were coordinated between the Russian and Ukrainian delegations with President Erdogan's mediation. However, Ukraine subsequently tossed them away and no one is returning to them. We are hearing about new initiatives, but this is not something that has ever been discussed with us. So, we do not take anything new.
As for the mediation efforts, we have never turned them down. We are aware of the mediation proposals and initiatives coming from the People's Republic of China and African countries. Of course, we are also grateful to President Erdogan for his efforts in this regard.
Now, regarding the resumption of the grain deal. I have already covered this issue, and I will not be able to add much to it. We initially agreed to participate in it, not least because we had negotiated a number of obligations that were in the interests of Russia – again, with the mediation of President Erdogan and the UN.
The deal was approaching expiration, but not a single obligation to Russia was fulfilled. We were asked to extend our participation in it with the promise of immediate compliance with all previous commitments. We extended it, but nothing happened.
Then, for the third time, we were asked to extend our participation with a promise to fulfil the obligations made to us. And, as often happens with our Western partners, they let us down this time again: they did nothing. Well, that is it.
Now we are saying that we are not against the deal, we are ready to return to it immediately after the promises made to us are fulfilled. That’s all. If today they fulfil their promises, within the next few days we will return in full, we will do everything they want from us.
What can I add here? Only that we have always agreed that these corridors intended for food exports should not be used for military purposes. Sadly, they are being used by the other side, we can see this. Just as attempts are being made to attack TurkStream and Blue Stream through which gas is supplied to the Republic of Turkiye from Russia. Our ships are guarding these streams, these pipeline systems, and they are constantly being attacked, including with the help of drones sent from Ukrainian Black Sea ports.
We need to agree on everything: that nothing like this will happen in the future, and that the promises made to Russia will be fulfilled. That’s all, and then we will be back. We have no problems here, absolutely no problems.
We will have a good harvest this year as well. Last year it was about 158 million tonnes and this year it will be about 130. The export capacity will also remain somewhere at the level of 60 million tonnes. There will be 60 million tonnes of export capacity.
Turkiye is our big partner. Turkiye has a large flour processing industry, we know this. We will fully meet the needs of the Republic of Turkiye and we are ready to promote together, as the President insists, to return to the Black Sea initiative and, together with Turkiye and Qatar, supply the poorest countries. We will start independently now by sending 25–50 [thousand tonnes] to the poorest countries. How much? 50?
Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev: Between 25 and 50.
Vladimir Putin: We will ship 25–50 thousand tonnes for free to six African countries. Right in the next few days. We are ready, we want to work, we are working and we will work in all these areas.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): As President Putin noted, in this situation, regarding joint steps by Ukraine and Russia, Ukraine needs to soften its approach, especially at this point.
The Black Sea corridor will serve the poorest countries where grain will be shipped. But if 44 percent of this grain was to be shipped to European countries, then Russia is correct in saying that 14 percent was sent to Turkiye and about 6 percent to the African countries. Nevertheless, in coordination with Russia, we would like to send it to the poorest African countries. During our one-on-one meeting, we said, “Let’s send a million tonnes to the poorest countries,” and we are willing to cooperate in this regard and even take care of the logistics. We stand ready to send one million tonnes to the poorest African countries as part of this operation.
We have noted and told President Putin that Turkiye is prepared to do everything possible, make every effort, to have one million tonnes of grain processed by our country's milling industry, and then send this flour to the poorest African countries. We can do this, and we have made this proposal and reached an agreement on this matter.
I hope that Mr Putin will be able to meet the demand from these African countries. The President mentioned six African countries in particular. I hope we will take these steps together.
Pavel Minakov: Good afternoon, Interfax Agency.
I have two questions. One of them is a clarifying question for both presidents.
You mentioned grain exports involving Qatar. A clarifying question: could this track become a full or a partial replacement for the grain deal in terms of its mechanism?
And the second question is for President Putin. Currently, many sources, including Western ones, report that the Ukrainian offensive is stalling. In this regard, how do you assess the situation in the conflict zone? Does Russia maintain its readiness for talks to settle the situation politically and diplomatically?
Vladimir Putin: Regarding grain, if we return to that issue, we do not consider our joint work with Turkiye and possibly Qatar to ship one million tons of grain as an alternative to the Black Sea grain deal. Ukraine is also involved in the deal and it has its own interests. We fully understand that. So, this is not a replacement, but it would certainly be a significant contribution from our side. It would be a huge contribution from our side to resolving food problems in certain African countries. This is quite obvious.
As for the stalling counteroffensive, it is not stalling; it is a failed counteroffensive. At least, as of today, it looks exactly like that. Let's see how things unfold. I hope it will continue like this. I want to emphasise that Russia has never turned down talks, and we will not turn them down now, either. President Erdogan raised these questions during our meeting today. I confirm this to him.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan (retranslated): Yes, it is about Qatar's participation to support the poorest, less developed, African countries. After the grain gets processed by the mills, Qatar will provide financial support. So, it is three countries – Russia, Turkiye and Qatar. This is what Qatar is saying. I hope it will benefit the least developed and poorest African countries. We will stand by this initiative.
Thank you very much.
Geography
Türkiye
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Persons
Erdogan Recep Tayyip
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 4, 2023, 17:05
Text version