Events
Video address on Railway Worker’s Day
August 6, 2023
00:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Video address on Railway Worker’s Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I would like to congratulate all railway workers and veterans on their professional holiday.
People representing a wide range of professions and with all kinds of skills, including train drivers, conductors, construction and maintenance workers, engineers and traffic operators, have been contributing to developing this essential sector which has strategic importance.
Each one of you performs important work and has every right to take pride in your profession as you perpetuate its glorious traditions.
In fact, these traditions were laid in the first half of the 19th century by those who built the Tsarskoselskaya Railway, and took shape as this new means of transport became increasingly important and critical for our vast country, including for Russia’s national security.
During the Great Patriotic War, railway workers stood with the Soviet people in accomplishing major feats both on the battlefield and in their work by running trains to help our army and connecting the frontline to the rear despite all the shelling and bombing.
We remember the landmark achievements by the railway workers, primarily the momentous efforts to build and launch the Trans-Siberian Railway and the Baikal-Amur Mainline, as well as other railway lines which continue to serve our country today and play a special, sometimes critical role in carrying out major far-reaching projects and plans.
You have been proactive in contributing to our system-wide effort to upgrade railway infrastructure and promote its comprehensive development, including its key and high-potential segments such as the Central Transport Hub, the Eastern Operating Domain, and approaches to the ports of the Azov-Black Sea and Caspian basins. This also includes efforts to resume railway traffic in Novorossiya and Donbass.
Russia is developing its own cutting-edge high-speed locomotives and trains to make yet another step towards strengthening our technological independence.
Introducing digital services and state-of-the-art technology and logistics solutions are among our priorities.
Used by millions every day, train stations across Russian cities will also benefit from upgrades for a more modern look and feel.
We will be consistent as we move forward together and will definitely deliver on all our objectives by following a set of clear principles which apply to both freight and passenger transport: safety, reliability, speed, accessibility, and comfort.
I want to thank all railway workers in Russia for your responsible attitude and dedication to this important and highly valuable profession – the country needs it. Thank you for your readiness to put in the hard work and achieve results for the benefit of our homeland and our people.
I wish good health, success and all the best to you and your families.
Happy Railway Worker’s Day, friends!
Topics
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 6, 2023, 00:00
Text version