Events
Greetings on Special Operations Forces’ Day
Vladimir Putin congratulated the military personnel and veterans of the Special Operations Forces’ on their professional holiday.
February 27, 2023
09:00
Greetings on Special Operations Forces’ Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades, veterans,
I congratulate you on your professional holiday, Special Operations Forces’ Day.
You are rightfully considered the pride of the Russian army. All fighters and commanders of the Special Operations Forces are distinguished by the highest level of training, their ability and readiness to act boldly, decisively, with lightning speed in key areas and directions, and to effectively solve the most complex and responsible tasks of strategic importance in any regions of the world where this is required by the security and the national interests of Russia and our people.
Mastery of the most advanced types of weapons and military equipment, as well as your combat experience made it possible to form our own unique school of military skill. It is based on the heroic traditions of our special forces, which crushed the enemy during the Great Patriotic War and excelled in Afghanistan and many other hot spots.
Your life choice is the path of valour and courage, selfless devotion to the Fatherland, fidelity to your duty and oath. You have proven it in battle, including during the special military operation, following the orders to the end, protecting your comrades, saving women, children and the elderly, defending Russia, our nation and our land from the neo-Nazi threat.
Your knowledge and professional skills, exemplary discipline and high morale are necessary for the comprehensive training of young fighters who are honoured to serve in the ranks of the Special Operations Forces. I will especially note your direct participation in ensuring combat coordination, high-quality training of our citizens called up for military service as part of the partial mobilisation. You pass on your knowledge and military experience, as well as your unbending fighting spirit.
I want to thank all the soldiers of the Russian Special Operations Forces and veterans of special forces units for your patriotism and your selfless and impeccable service to the Fatherland.
I wish you health and success, and prosperity to your loved ones.
Greetings to all! May good luck always be with you.
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 27, 2023, 09:00
Text version