Events
Meeting with Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
Vladimir Putin had a working meeting with Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin.
July 4, 2023
23:55
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 7
Meeting with Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mishustin, we agreed to meet after I bid good-bye to my guests from Daghestan. While they were here, we coordinated assistance for Derbent with the Finance Ministry. So, we are meeting a bit later than planned.
What shall be begin with? The implementation of national projects?
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
: Yes, Mr President, we can begin with the implementation of national projects. We are ready to talk about this too.
The mean level of our achievements under national projects is probably the most important figure. I have prepared a special document for you, which shows that it is 98.95 percent. Mr President, the assessment method is extremely important, because the percentage is impressive, but our assessment method is based on three elements.
The first has to do with the measures we coordinated at our strategic meetings as methods of attaining the goals of national projects and the national development goals.
The second aspect concerns funding, that is, the efficient and targeted use of funds.
The third element is feedback, which you always mention. We have a special method to gauge it.
These are the underlying principles of our methods for assessing the implementation of national projects.
It is important that today the deputy prime ministers who oversee these projects are doing this regularly and consistently. You can look at each national project for more details later – science, culture, demography, housing and other projects. You can also look at the current situation with funding, including for so-called socially significant results, which the people want us to deliver.
We can take a look at these parameters in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, plans provided for creating 1,062 SMEs, whereas the actual figure for the first six months of 2023 is 1,453, which is far above the planned figure. The number of self-employed people has greatly increased as well. The same goes for the number of digital services, and so on.
How do we assess these results? Ecology, demography, healthcare and culture are the areas where people want to see results, of course, and they are a way of attaining the national development goals, which we are guided by in our activities, including based on your instructions.
Vladimir Putin: I see that the number of people relocated from dilapidated housing has nevertheless increased. It is on page 9.
Mikhail Mishustin: Yes, it has. You can see all the details here, Mr President.
The important thing is that we have also created a management system that allows us to look at these parameters online in the direct meaning of the word, honestly. I have demonstrated this to you on many occasions.
Mr President, the national economy is steadily recovering, despite the sanctions and all other obstacles created for our country. I looked at the figures when preparing for this meeting. Our GDP increased by 0.6 percent over the first five months and by 5.4 percent year on year in May, which is very important.
Forecasting is an unrewarding task, yet while preparing for a meeting with the President I was also thinking what annual forecast figure I could give. We are confident that we can achieve a 2 percent annual growth, barring force majeure.
Vladimir Putin: The IMF predicted 0.7 percent.
Mikhail Mishustin: Well, they predict different things.
Vladimir Putin: At the start of this year, it was plus 0.7 percent; then they slightly raised their forecast. Meanwhile our experts and the Ministry of Economic Development predicted 1.5–1.9 percent.
Mikhail Mishustin: The official forecast is currently lower but in August, we will review it. I can express my confidence that it should be over 2 percent with the indicators we are seeing now.
We have some more good news. You are well aware of the current inflation rate, which was 3.4 percent as of early July. Experts believe it will not exceed 5 percent per annum. We will see.
We created a special price monitoring system, used to primarily monitor the food basket. I report to you regularly. Every morning I receive reports on pricing trends that may be sensitive for consumers. The data comes from three or four sources, the Federal Service for National Statistics, tax services and our corresponding analytical centres. We monitor this data very carefully.
As concerns wages, if you remember, Mr President, at one of the previous meetings, you asked me about the expected increase in real wages in March. I answered that it would be about 3 percent. Now we have received precise figures: 2.7 percent. But to this date, four months later, the increase in real wages has reached 4.2 percent. We have a 4.2-percent growth in four months.
When it comes to year-on-year growth, the real increase in wages reached 10.4 percent in April, which is very significant. Nominal wages grew by 11.4 percent in four months. All these results indicate recovery and indicate that incomes have started to grow. In fact, it corresponds with the goal you set for us, which is to raise people’s incomes.
I have already told you about the GDP. We hope to see it grow by more than 2 percent. But it is important to understand what drives this growth. Right now, the growth is driven by processing industries. It is very important.
Vladimir Putin: Very good.
Mikhail Mishustin: This also includes issues linked with import substitution. This May, we posted 12.8 percent growth on May 2022, and we exceeded 2021 levels by 8.6 percent. On the whole, we can see that the situation is becoming sufficiently stable.
There are some other positive indicators. For example, wholesale trade increased by 8.4 percent this past May compared to May 2022, and the construction sector has expanded by 4.7 percent over the same period. Consequently, wholesale trade has soared by 14.5 percent in 12 months, and the construction sector has expanded by 13.5 percent over the same period.
Vladimir Putin: Domestic demand.
Mikhail Mishustin: Yes, this implies expanding domestic demand.
By the way, consumer activity increased in May, compared to the previous year, reaching 2021 levels (you and I also discussed this in great detail). Overall retail trade, public catering and paid services volumes increased by 8.8 percent, year on year, following a 7-percent increment. In other words, we are closely following current developments.
Regarding the labour market, you know the situation well: unemployment has hit an all-time low of 3.1–3.2 percent. What is really important is that you and I chaired a number of meetings to carefully adjust the personnel retraining system. We faced the threat of potential layoffs when companies left the country.
We have introduced multiple retraining programmes, and you know about them. I met with young people who had completed retraining courses at colleges. They were very happy because they wanted to find jobs to their liking and because they were able to obtain a new profession and a new job without any substantial expenses. We will continue to move in this direction.
I believe that we will accomplish all objectives. Most importantly, I am absolutely confident that we will meet all social commitments and provide all guarantees, including presidential guarantees to the population, first and foremost.
Vladimir Putin: This is very important. What is no less important is that at least for the time being, let us just say, cautiously, we are posting better results than the projected figures, which were expected by us. This gives us reason to hope that we will accomplish all objectives before the year is out, to say the least; in any event, regarding the objectives set by us.
Mikhail Mishustin: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Economy and finance
Priority National Projects
Persons
Mishustin Mikhail
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 4, 2023, 23:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
The President held a videoconference meeting with members of the Government.
July 4, 2023
16:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
Meeting with Government members (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
, deputy prime ministers Viktoria Abramchenko
, Tatyana Golikova
, Alexander Novak
, Marat Khusnullin
and Dmitry Chernyshenko
, Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Dmitry Grigorenko
, Deputy Prime Minister – Presidential Plenipotentiary Representative to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
, Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
. Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Minister of Labour and Social Protection Anton Kotyakov
, Minister of Education Sergei Kravtsov
, Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
, Minister of Construction, Housing and Utilities Irek Fayzullin
, Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Maksut Shadayev
, Minister of Energy Nikolai Shulginov
, Governor of the Central Bank Elvira Nabiullina
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, heads of several Russian regions and First Deputy Prosecutor General Anatoly Razinkin were also invited to attend the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
As usual, we will start with immediate matters. The first issue is the situation at the approach to the Crimean Bridge. I would like to hear from Vitaly Savelyev.
Mr Savelyev, I know that you have been preparing for the summer season and planning to increase the number of security checkpoints but, apparently, the traffic is enormous. What is happening there now and what can be done to improve the situation?
Please.
Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
: Mr President,
After the terrorist attack on the Crimean Bridge on October 8, 2022, a third security level was introduced that requires 100 percent inspection of all vehicles using the bridge. This security level remains active to prevent terrorist attacks and the smuggling of illegal cargo.
I would like to point out that this represents the consolidated position of all parties involved in providing security and logistics for the Crimean Bridge. This approach is supported by the Federal Security Service of Russia, the Russian Interior Ministry, the Krasnodar Territory Governor [Veniamin Kondratyev] and the Head of the Republic of Crimea [Sergei Aksyonov].
During the autumn-winter period, the traffic was up to 5,000 vehicles per day in both directions. Inspections on the previous infrastructure were made using two stationary inspection stations.
Based on previous Government resolutions, the Transport Ministry, in conjunction with the Federal Security Service and related agencies, implemented several projects to expand the inspection infrastructure on the Krasnodar Territory side and on the Crimea side by the time the holiday season opened.
In general, 11 modular buildings were put in place and outfitted with 18 inspection lanes with corresponding technical equipment including introscopes, frames and metal detectors, which make it possible to inspect up to 440 vehicles per hour from Taman and up to 400 vehicles per hour from Kerch.
(Next, the Minister spoke in detail about the inspection service organisation, the number of employees, the work schedule and awareness campaigns among drivers and passengers, as well as about providing the necessary workplace amenities).
We interact with the people on a daily basis, both in person and via social media. Most drivers and passengers are understanding of the measures we have taken to ensure their safety. I would like to thank the Krasnodar Territory Governor, the Head of the Republic of Crimea, the Federal Security Service, the Interior Ministry and the Emergencies Ministry for the swift cooperation. I am in contact with them all. I think their assessment of the situation is more or less the same.
Notably, after the repair works were completed on July 2, traffic was opened on the Kherson Bridge on the border with the Republic of Crimea and the Kherson Region, which makes it possible for drivers to take an alternative route bypassing the Crimean Bridge. Our statistics show that yesterday more than 1,200 vehicles drove across the new territories without using the Crimean Bridge.
As a reminder, only passenger cars and tourist buses are allowed on the bridge, with trucks using the ferry crossing. The passenger-vehicle ferry Kerchensky-2 will start operating around the clock from July 7. It will make up to five round trips a day carrying up to 200 vehicles in both directions.
I would like to say that this morning I spoke with Mr Sergei Shoigu, and, if necessary, he will give us two large landing ships, each capable of carrying 40 cars. If they make five trips a day in normal weather, each will be able to carry 200 cars. Thus, we will be able to transport up to a thousand cars a day at this crossing, bypassing the Crimean Bridge.
In conclusion, I would like to ask all drivers and passengers bound for the Crimean Peninsula, to be understanding about the situation. It is necessary for safety and security reasons, and this is, of course, our top priority.
Thank you for your attention. My report is over.
Vladimir Putin: I was just going to ask you to use this ferry crossing to the maximum extent possible. I understand from what you said that this is being done and will be done, in part, with assistance from the Defence Ministry. But are these civilian ferries all we have?
Vitaly Savelyev: Mr President, today, we are using six ferries at the Crimean crossing, including train ferries and auto ferries – four of them. One ferry is currently under repair. But this is all we have now. We are using all our resources.
Vladimir Putin: But where is the ferry that is not being used now?
Vitaly Savelyev: It is now in the dock. But this ferry is a small one, holds just 21 cars. There are two of them: the Kerchensky-2 ferry will go into service on July 7, that is, before the end of this week, and its sister ferry, for another 21 cars, will follow. We will determine by July 5 when it can be restored.
Mr President, we believe the situation will reach its peak around July 16–17. I spoke with Mr Sergei Aksyonov today – he agrees. The tourist flow will first increase and then subside. We will see how it goes. If necessary, we will also use two landing ships we are discussing now. This is our decision.
Vladimir Putin: All right.
(Further, Head of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov replied to the President’s questions on vehicle traffic on the Crimean Bridge. Krasnodar Territory Governor Veniamin Kondratyev provided additional information on this issue. In particular, he suggested implementing the decisions made after the attempted attack on the Crimean Bridge. At that time, the operational headquarters decided to redirect all transport traffic, heavy trucks, bypassing the Krasnodar Territory via the new territories of Russia. So large trucks began to move to Crimea via Mariupol, Berdyansk and Melitopol. This decision made it possible to redistribute transport traffic and is still reducing the burden of freight volume bound to Crimea. The Governor proposed using this transport corridor for tourists that are driving as well. The President emphasised the need to observe safety measures and precautions for vacationers. It is necessary to assess this situation from all angles but of course, use all available opportunities. Vladimir Putin also promised additional help and asked the Transport Minister to be in constant communication.)
Vladimir Putin: Next topic. I would like Mr Anton Kotyakov to say a few words. We have the lowest unemployment rate and this is great – 73.4 million people in the country are working, and 2.4 million are listed as jobless. This is only 3.2 percent, a historical low.
Mr Kotyakov, what do you think about the prospects for the labour market?
Minister of Labour and Social Protection Anton Kotyakov: Mr President,
Indeed, the labour market has undergone major changes in the past few years. Many experts predicted growth in unemployment due to the sanctions and the withdrawal of foreign companies, but this did not happen. Our unemployment level today is 3,2 percent, or 2.4 million. This is a historical low in Russia over several decades.
Overall, the number of employed people increased by 1.5 million – today the figure is 73.4 million, as you said, Mr President.
Unemployment has decreased in all age groups. It is particularly important that it has gone down among young people. For the most part, young people under 25 find it hard to get a job because they have to combine it with their studies, or when they get their first job at the start of their so-called professional career.
Mr President, when the long-term programme for promoting youth employment was adopted in 2021 with your support, the unemployment rate among young people aged 20–25 exceeded 17 percent whereas now it’s at 11.5 percent.
Part-time employment is also dropping. According to operational monitoring, over the year, the number of workers that are idle or work part-time, decreased by more than three times. The number of applications at employment centres is also on the decline. So far, we have recorded 510,000 unemployed, which is 25 percent less than last year.
But today, the situation is quite different from one region to another. In 34 regions, unemployment is below 3 percent. In some regions, such as St Petersburg or the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area, it is only 1.6 percent. However, there are also regions where unemployment is over 10 percent. I will name four of them – Daghestan, Ingushetia, North Ossetia-Alania and the Chechen Republic.
This means we are witnessing the continued noticeable differences in unemployment levels between the constituent entities of the Russian Federation. We continue implementing regional programmes to mitigate labour market strains in those regions where unemployment remains high.
Regarding labour demand, as of today, the number of jobs posted on the Work in Russia website exceeds 1,860,000, and we see that a third of the vacancies are in industries.
(The Minister went on to speak about upgrading employment services as part of the Demography national project. At present, all submitted vacancies and CVs have been digitised as were the internal process of employment offices. Employment centres’ tools are being improved. At the moment, over 9,000 retraining programmes are available to meet local labour market demand. In view of current shortages in the labour market, the emphasis is on blue-collar jobs. Programmes to increase labour mobility have also been enacted. The Minister covered employment in the new regions as well. As of today, there are already 78 employment centres operating in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and in the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions. From the beginning of the year, over 51,000 people applied to them, and 42,000 citizens found employment.)
Today, we have an established labour market looking for personnel. We clearly see that currently the demand for personnel exceeds the number of job seekers, and we are not expecting any changes in the labour market in terms of unemployment spikes. On the contrary, unemployment will stay at these low levels and will slowly go down while we are going to focus our efforts on meeting the industrial enterprises’ demand for selecting qualified personnel.
Vladimir Putin: All right. Thank you very much.
There is no need to say how important labour market conditions are both for the economy and the social sphere, and so I have to really press you to continue work in all those directions you have mentioned.
The Farewell Bell has rung, school leavers completed their studies. For the most part, students went on summer school holidays, teachers are taking their vacations. This is probably not happening everywhere or with everyone but we still understand that the bulk of repair works takes place during summer although this work goes on all year round. The federal budget allocates a handsome amount for this purpose under a co-financing programme. I think it amounts to 67 billion rubles.
Mr Kravtsov, how is this work organised today?
Minister of Education Sergei Kravtsov
: Mr President,
Following your instructions, we continue implementing a large-scale and very important programme for major school repairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Construction and the United Russia party. In addition to repairs, we are also equipping schools with modern learning tools and conducting what actually amounts to a comprehensive modernisation of the school education system. This is exactly how we called this programme.
On top of all that, the regions assume additional reciprocal commitments: to provide counterterrorist protection of the repaired facilities, renew textbooks and organise training courses for the staff. In the process, school students, their parents and teachers take a direct part in accepting the works carried out. Their voice is decisive. It is up to them what their schools should look like.
This programme allows us to have more and more deeply upgraded, modernised schools with a new quality of education space, which is comfortable for children and the teaching staff.
Mr President, as you have said, provisions necessary to implement this programme have been made. Since 2022, the federal budget has been allocating 67 billion rubles every year for this purpose. Last year, 1,298 schools in the regions were repaired using the federal budget funds. This is 100 percent of the plan – so, it has been fulfilled in its entirety.
In addition, during the past year, 365 school buildings have been repaired under the programme using the regional budgets’ funds, and many facilities had been put into service ahead of schedule. Overall, 1,663 buildings were repaired under the programme in 2022.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Kravtsov, how many buildings should we repair by the end of this year?
Sergei Kravtsov: Mr President, we must repair 1,760 buildings, including 230 at the expense of regional budgets. So this is a rather large programme, and this year everything is under special control. We will do everything in our power for all schools to open by September 1.
As for its geographic coverage, the programme is enormous and covers the whole country. Just one example. Out of all schools that have been modernised, the southernmost school is located in the Akhtyn Region of the Republic of Daghestan on the border with Azerbaijan and the northernmost school is in Zaozersk in the Murmansk Region, off the coast of the Barents Sea. The westernmost school is in Slavyanskoye in the Kaliningrad Region and the easternmost school is in Vilyuchinsk in the Kamchatka Territory.
Some more statistics: the biggest modernised school for 2,640 students is located in Pskov and the smallest schools with only 10–15 children are located in the Tula and Kostroma regions and in the Republic of Daghestan. To sum up, the programme covers both big and small schools.
Vladimir Putin: I see, Mr Kravtsov. Will we complete the tasks you talked about by the end of the year? You mentioned 1,760 schools.
Sergei Kravtsov: Yes, Mr President, no sanctions or restrictions will prevent us from doing so – we are working according to plan and will fulfil all the tasks and instructions on time.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. Enough said.
Sergei Kravtsov: Yes, we will do everything.
Vladimir Putin: The main thing is to do what you have planned.
Sergei Kravtsov: We will.
Vladimir Putin: As you have probably noted, a meeting with heads of state from the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) member countries has just taken place. The agenda included a number of humanitarian issues, including cooperation in sports.
Mr Chernyshenko, I know you have mapped out a big programme, in part with our colleagues from the CIS, the SCO and BRICS.
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko
: Absolutely right. We had your instructions.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Chernyshenko, what do you plan for the near future?
Dmitry Chernyshenko: You instructed us to preserve competition practice for high-performance sports. In this context, the Ministry of Sport is certainly looking for new markets and new cooperation opportunities in order to overcome the blockade imposed on us by traditional international federations. The BRICS and SCO countries as well as the Asian region are meeting us halfway. We are staging international competitions with them.
I would like to say that this is an anniversary year – a centenary of sports management bodies. Mass sports events timed to this date are now held all around the country. The regions are honouring their outstanding athletes.
Of course, this focus of attention on sports is bound to promote it and help us reach the goal you mentioned – to involve 70 percent of all people in regular fitness and sports activities by 2030. I would like to report that everything goes as planned. Today, about 53 percent of all people are already involved in sports – this is about 70 million. Our best regions in this respect are the Vologda, Belgorod and Voronezh regions, the Republic of Karelia and the Primorye Territory.
Mr President, do you remember how Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin and I reported to you at the Government Coordination Centre, when we showed you data-based information systems of government management? I showed you what components make up the number of people that do sports on a regular basis. They included children, students, as well as employees of different companies, departments and other categories of people.
In some categories, we are very close to maximum numbers. For example, almost 89 percent, or 38 million, children and young people do sports regularly. We see the biggest potential for achieving the figure of 70 percent with those people who practice sports independently, including in fitness clubs. We engage a variety of tools such as promotion, creating infrastructure and conditions for developing businesses related to recreation and health services.
Last year, about 391,000 mass events were organised for the public – and this year, we expect to see as many. More than 20 million people signed up for the GTO (Ready for Labour and Defence) programme created as per your instruction. Almost 8 million hit qualifying standards and received distinction badges. The dynamic is very positive: while in 2020, 900,000 people joined the GTO programme, in 2022 the figure reached 1.7 million.
Vladimir Putin: I know that you planned to hold competitions among BRICS countries, as well as in the SCO and the CIS. Is that correct?
Dmitry Chernyshenko: Yes, that is correct.
The primary goal was to compensate for other competitions that were unfairly taken away from us. One example is, of course, the Universiade that was supposed to be held in Yekaterinburg.
Almost 70 university teams from the BRICS, SCO and CIS countries will arrive this August to compete in student sports at a similar level as the Universiade. We are expecting almost 3,000 athletes and, of course, there is interest in this sort of competition.
Also in this context, I would like to mention another instruction of yours concerning preparations for the first in history and in the world multi-sport tournament, Games of the Future, which will take place in Kazan in 2024.
Athletes from 15 countries have already participated in trial competitions. To date, regional phygital sports federations have been established in 35 Russian regions. This industry is growing very well as more than 10 million people in our country practice cybersports, and our job is to help them get away from their computers and become equally experienced in sports. Far more than 100 countries are expected to attend this major event that will promote physical fitness and motivate people to train.
Vladimir Putin: Good, thank you very much.
<…>
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Krasnodar Territory
Topics
Labour market
Regions
School
Sport
1 more
Persons
Aksyonov Sergei
Chernyshenko Dmitry
Kondratyev Veniamin
Kotyakov Anton
2 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 4, 2023, 16:10
Text versionEvents
SCO Heads of State Council meeting
The President took part in a videoconference meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Heads of State Council.
July 4, 2023
10:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 5
During a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Heads of State Council (via videoconference).
The meeting is taking place under the chairmanship of Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
.
President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping
, President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
, President of Kyrgyzstan Sadyr Japarov
, Prime Minister of Pakistan Shehbaz Sharif, President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
and President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev
are also taking part in the meeting.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
, President of Iran Ebrahim Raisi
and President of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh
were invited to take part in the meeting as heads of the SCO observer states. President of Turkmenistan Serdar Berdimuhamedov
was invited as a guest of the presiding party.
Heads of the SCO permanent bodies and heads of delegations from certain invited international organisations and associations are also attending the summit.
Following the meeting, the leaders signed the New Delhi Declaration and adopted a package of documents. In particular, the SCO Heads of State Council approved the SCO Economic Development Strategy to 2030; made the decisions on completing the procedure for admitting the Islamic Republic of Iran to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and granting it the status of an SCO member state; signed the Memorandum of Obligations of the Republic of Belarus in order to obtain the status of an SCO member state; and on announced the city of Almaty, Kazakhstan, as the SCO Cultural and Tourism Capital in 2023–2024.
In addition, the SCO Heads of State Council approved the Concept of Cooperation between the SCO Member States to decarbonise transport and promote digital transformation and innovative technologies to achieve greater efficiency and sustainability.
The SCO Heads of State Council also adopted decisions on the Regulation on the Executive Committee of the SCO Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure and on the signing of a Memorandum between the SCO Secretariat and the United Nations Environment Programme.
The SCO Heads of State Council adopted statements on countering radicalisation leading to terrorism, separatism and extremism, and on cooperation in digital transformation.
***
Speech at the meeting of the SCO Heads of State Council
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Prime Minister Modi.
Friends,
First of all, just like the colleagues before me, I would like to thank the Prime Minister of India for the organisation of our meeting and express my appreciation of the work done by the Indian chairmanship in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
The implementation of a sizable package of documents and decisions that were prepared for this meeting of the Heads of State Council will undoubtedly make a significant contribution to strengthening the strategic partnership within the SCO.
Naturally, Russia supports the draft New Delhi declaration, which outlines goals and tasks related to the further comprehensive development of our interaction and consolidated approaches to relevant international issues.
We believe it is important that all members of the association share their approaches to the situation in global politics, security, the social and economic spheres.
At the same time, our organisation is strongly committed to creating a truly just and multipolar world order, an order based on international law and common principles of mutually respectful cooperation between sovereign states with the central, coordinating role of the United Nations.
Most importantly, this is the constructive foundation underlying the SCO’s practical activity. Our organisation plays an increasingly important role in international affairs and brings a substantial contribution to maintaining peace and stability, ensuring sustainable economic growth of its member states and developing ties between peoples.
This is especially important today, when geopolitical discord grows bigger, the degradation of the international security system continues, risks of a new global economic and financial crisis increase against the backdrop of an uncontrolled debt accumulation by developed countries, social divide and growth of poverty all over the world, deterioration of food and environmental security. All these issues, with every one of them being complex and diverse in its own way, together lead to a significant increase in conflict potential. Russia is experiencing all of this right now.
For a long time, external forces have been implementing a project near our borders to create from our neighbour, Ukraine, a de facto hostile state, an “anti-Russia.” They funnelled weapons into it for eight years, condoned aggression against the peaceful population of Donbass and indulged in every way in planting neo-Nazi ideology.
And all this was done in order to jeopardise Russia's security and stifle our country's development. We are now, in fact, being subjected to a hybrid war, with illegitimate anti-Russian sanctions that are unprecedented in scale. I would like to stress that Russia is confidently resisting and will continue to resist external pressure, sanctions and provocations.
And in the current climate, our country continues to develop steadily. The Russian people are more consolidated than ever. The unity and high responsibility for the fate of the Fatherland was clearly demonstrated by the Russian political circles and the whole of society in uniting against the attempted armed rebellion.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation member states who have expressed their support for the Russian leadership in defending the constitutional order, lives and security of its citizens. We greatly appreciate this.
We intend to continue to deepen ties with members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. These ties are becoming stronger and more diverse. Russia’s trade with SCO member states has increased by over one third, or 37 percent, reaching a record high of US$263 billion last year. From January to April this year, it went up by another 35 percent.
We are making wider use of national currencies for mutual settlements. In particular, over 80 percent of commercial transactions between Russia and the People’s Republic of China are made in rubles and yuan. The share of the Russian national currency in export transactions with all the SCO countries exceeded 40 percent in 2022.
Russia has been very active in implementing the SCO roadmap for the transition to national currencies in mutual trade, endorsed at the previous summit in Samarkand, Uzbekistan. It is important to continue this work, to take coordinated measures to remove regulatory barriers, to establish the necessary payment infrastructure and to create an independent financial system.
The implementation of the SCO Economic Development Strategy to 2030 will further promote regional integration. Russia has been in favour of strengthening cooperation between the member states in investment, banking and finance, as well as in industry, energy, transport and logistics, agriculture, telecommunications, digitalisation and high tech.
Of course, maintaining security in the member states and along the perimeter of the SCO external borders is a key task of our joint activities. The Organisation began with this activity and we will continue to promote it.
Traditionally, the SCO focuses on the situation in Afghanistan. Our colleagues have just talked about this, and this is a situation that, unfortunately, is not becoming less tense.
Counterterrorism, countering extremism and religious radicalism, curbing drug trafficking and other types of smuggling, combating militant formations must remain a priority of the SCO. I would like to recall Russia’s proposal to transform the regional SCO anti-terrorist structure into a universal centre that would be responsible for responding to the entire range of security threats.
Speaking about reforming SCO institutions, I cannot but mention that last year a decision was made in Samarkand to upgrade the Organisation’s activities: while preserving the basic foundations and principles of the SCO, to increase the efficiency of both the Heads of State Council and other bodies of the association, including in the economic area. Practical work has already begun, and it is important not to delay this process.
The expansion of cooperation between the SCO member states in culture, humanitarian issues, science, education and tourism is equally important. The SCO Youth Council, as well as public and volunteer organisations, and goodwill ambassadors are making their contribution to this work.
I would like to note that the ideas voiced by Russia a year ago about developing sports cooperation within the SCO and holding major sporting events in member states under the auspices of the SCO were met with interest. I would like to take this opportunity to invite national teams from all your countries to Yekaterinburg, Russia, where the International University Sports Festival will be held in August with the participation of athletes from the SCO states, as well as BRICS and the CIS.
Friends, I would also like to point out that Sochi will host the World Youth Festival on March 1–7, 2024. It will be the biggest international-level youth event, bringing together active, passionate young people from all over the world. Over 20,000 people from more than 180 countries are expected to take part.
The festival will offer ample opportunities for building direct contacts with counterparts, informal friendly talk free of ideological and political barriers and racial and religious biases, and for communication that will unite the younger generation around ideas of lasting, sustainable peace, prosperity and creativity.
We will be happy to see delegations from the SCO countries at this global festival of youth and friendship.
Friends,
It is a matter of satisfaction that the authority and influence of our association continue to improve, and other countries and international structures show interest in its activity. Many of them are striving to build an equal dialogue with the SCO and considering getting involved in its work. They trust us and want to be friends and work together.
The Islamic Republic of Iran is now a full member of our organisation, and I want to offer my sincere congratulations and welcome President of Iran, Mr Raisi. It took less than two years for our Iranian partners to finalise all the necessary procedures, and now our common goal is to help our colleagues join the multifaceted work of the SCO in an effective way.
Russia is also in favour of early completion of the SCO membership procedures for the Republic of Belarus. We are confident that the membership of Belarus, which is Russia’s strategic partner and closest ally, will have a positive impact on the association’s activity.
Naturally, the consideration of the entire substantial portfolio of applications from other states that want to cooperate with our organisation in one capacity or another requires the most attentive and constructive approach. My colleagues have just spoken about this.
In conclusion, I would like to wish success to President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev and our Kazakhstani friends who will take over the chairmanship of the SCO after today’s summit. Mr President of Kazakhstan, you can undoubtedly count on the necessary cooperation from the Russian party.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
Foreign policy
SCO
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 4, 2023, 10:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with graduates of GSPM RANEPA
Vladimir Putin met with the fifth group of graduates of the Management Personnel Pool programme of the Graduate School of Public Management (GSPM) at the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA) in the Kremlin’s St Catherine Hall.
July 4, 2023
14:35
The Kremlin, Moscow
7 of 22
At a meeting with graduates of GSPM RANEPA (Graduate School of Public Management of the Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration). Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
The GSPM RANEPA was established in 2013. It offers training, retraining and advanced studies for management personnel in the government administration system, helps to create and develop personnel pools at all levels.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
I am happy to welcome you and congratulate you on the successful completion of your studies.
In daily use, this entire process and education goes under the name of the school of governors, and this is true to life. I am sure you know this, but at a public meeting I am bound to say it, and it may be of interest to everyone – that during the implementation of this programme since 2017, 50 of its participants have become heads of Russian regions, while more than 200 have received new appointments in the federal government – five of them have been appointed federal ministers and over 20 deputy ministers, including seven first deputy ministers.
Graduates serve in both houses of parliament, as deputy speakers of the State Duma and the Federation Council, and as heads of key committees. Your colleagues are doing a good job in the Presidential and Government executive offices.
I know that some graduates from this programme are heads of large cities. These are really the country’s biggest cities including Nizhny Novgorod, Tyumen, Kazan, Kaluga, Lipetsk, Voronezh and Izhevsk, to name a few. They also work in major corporations, such as Roscosmos, RUSNANO, Russian Railways, United Aircraft Corporation, Sberbank, Rosneft, ALROSA and others. Overall, more than 400 people have completed studies under this programme.
I would like to congratulate you on your graduation. I am sure you will add to this wonderful cohort of graduates from past years.
What would I like to note? First, I would like to emphasise that this is the social lift we talk about, because this programme rests on the principles of absolute transparency. What matters most in it is not some “telephone law” or even past merits but personal qualities, ability and potential – a creative potential, and readiness to serve – to serve in the best sense of the word – to serve your people, your country and your Motherland.
I know that at different times the graduates have always been sensitive to what the country needed the most. Recently, this was the pandemic, and they went to work where the demand for executives was the highest. Since the start of the special military operation, practically all those in the personnel training system, have been motivated to support the special military operation in many diverse ways.
I would like to thank you, your colleagues and all those who have taken part in similar efforts and to express the hope that you will justify the trust of those who brought you together and achieve self-fulfilment.
Of course, I must thank your teachers, your mentors. There were many of them. These are interesting people that have achieved very much in their careers in the best, direct sense of this word. They have fulfilled their potential and continue developing while working with high-potential people like you.
At this point, I would like to end my opening remarks – I’d rather listen to you. I am giving the floor to you.
Go ahead, please.
<…>
Topics
Civil service
Universities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 4, 2023, 14:35
Text version