Events
Meeting with newly elected regional heads
The President had a videoconference with 26 newly elected heads of Russian regions.
September 28, 2023
14:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with newly elected regional heads (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
I would like to begin by congratulating you on winning the elections. You have all demonstrated worthy and confident results. In the regions with direct voting, you confidently won in the first round or received broad support in regional legislative assemblies.
The elections were held for the first time in the new Russian regions – in fact, in our historic regions of Donbass and Novorossiya, as I have already said many times, in accordance with Russian laws. The voting in regional parliaments, whose members were also elected for the first time under Russian laws, reaffirmed the incumbent leaders’ status.
This is certainly a momentous event, a crucial step in the new regions' integration into the single legal and administrative space of our vast country
The new regions’ situation is special, as are their immediate tasks, but I am fully confident that the regional authorities and, most importantly, the people, our citizens, feel the support they receive from the rest of Russia. This is extremely important, and so it will be.
Colleagues,
The elections were open, fair and competitive.
The turnout was also high, which shows the growing civic maturity of our society: people have come to realise how important it is to vote, to be responsible for the future of their region, their country, and thereby the future of their families and their children.
Again, the results of the regional elections are very convincing. We often talk about this, and it is true: such a high level of trust primarily entails an even greater responsibility. I am sure you are fully aware of this and are prepared to focus on delivering the hopes of your voters, the regions’ residents, to see a positive change in their quality of life and standard of living.
The development of regional economies and their human, educational, and technological resources, as well as the creation of new jobs, are the key factors in ensuring the well-being of Russian families, increasing their incomes, and overcoming demographic and social challenges. Undoubtedly, this is the time for new opportunities and innovative approaches contrary to the plans of those who dreamt of choking us with sanctions.
Quite the opposite, the external pressure has ultimately become a powerful incentive for growing our own industries and tapping our potential in various fields. Without a doubt, we need to continue to work closely with the Government, federal and municipal bodies of authority to support companies and enterprises that are ready to fill vacated niches and to propose projects and solutions, including high-tech ones, that enjoy demand in the economy and are in line with our national goals and priorities.
The existing federal and regional tools must be extensively used to encourage investment and business activities and to create comfortable conditions for entrepreneurial initiatives.
Training personnel is a closely related task; we keep talking about this. It includes everything related to young people rising to their full potential, so they know they can succeed in their home regions.
Of course, I expect you to pay special attention to expanding transport, engineering, housing and utilities, and social infrastructure, in a word, the systemic issues that directly impact economic growth and the quality of people’s daily lives.
Regarding the social sphere, I would like to highlight one critically important issue: supporting our military personnel, including wounded soldiers, and their families. I believe that for all of us, primarily government officials at all levels, caring for our heroes and those that lost their loved ones is not just a professional duty, but a civil, humane, and moral obligation, a duty of gratitude and respect for the defenders of the Fatherland.
Colleagues!
To reiterate, a high level of trust brings great responsibility, and the key criterion is the effectiveness of your work, the public's opinion of this work, and their assessment of what you do.
I expect you to always be open to direct and candid dialogue with the people, that your actions and decisions will be based on their interests and needs, and that you will direct your every effort toward achieving the goals of the comprehensive and tangible development of the regions, and, consequently, the country as a whole.
I want to wish you and your management teams success and productive work. Congratulations, once again.
Please, colleagues, who would like to speak? Mr Sobyanin, perhaps you could start us off? The Mayor of Moscow.
Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
: Mr President, colleagues.
Mr President, thank you very much for supporting the gubernatorial corps and every one of us. I believe that our victory and the high results we have achieved are largely connected with the ratings of the head of state, the policy you are pursuing and the consolidation of society as a whole.
You have said, correctly of course, that such results and especially the fact that these results are based on the increased nationwide enthusiasm, have put us under an obligation to act responsibly and effectively.
We must make the fullest possible use of the traditional authority of the regional heads in the areas of socioeconomic policy, current issues, housing and utilities, transport and so on, which are the never-ending duties and the main responsibilities of all our colleagues.
Mr President, in addition to that, as you have rightly pointed out, we must also do our best to help the country during the special military operation, not only by providing social support to our soldiers and their families, but also by building up the economy and the defence sector by creating new industrial facilities to directly help our men who are fighting on the frontline, by sending them the necessary supplies, food and humanitarian aid. This is very important because this is creating a platform for consolidating our society and fostering a feeling of cohesion.
In my opinion, after these elections we should revise our current plans – most of us had quite ambitious plans – and adjust them to realty with due regard for the current challenges.
The Moscow authorities are not cancelling development plans but are intensifying them and making them more challenging and complicated. We are not only focused on our functions, which we are fulfilling, but also on the development of the main economic sectors, such as microelectronics, photonics, pharmaceutics, automobile manufacturing, and the construction of enterprises for the defence sector, as we have reported to you, namely for manufacturing aircraft and missiles, which involves complex technological solutions.
Mr President, thank you very much for the trust you have placed in us. I hope we will justify it.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Colleagues, we have no special protocol today. Who would like to add something?
Head of the Donetsk People’s Republic Denis Pushilin
: May I, Mr President? Pushilin, Donetsk People’s Republic.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, please, Mr Pushilin.
Denis Pushilin: Mr President, colleagues.
When the high voter turnout was reported in the Donetsk People’s Republic, I heard people say, “Donbass never ceases to amaze me.” But for us, for the people living in the region, this actually makes perfect sense. The population being this active during the elections was yet further confirmation that the region had made the right choice to reunite with the Russian Federation. We will be celebrating the anniversary of that choice very soon in fact. So this was a sign of approval of the path that the Donetsk People’s Republic has been taking as part of our great Motherland.
I would like to say that I am very proud of our courageous fellow countrymen who, despite all the hardships, are doing what they have to do. I bow low to them for this.
And I would like to express my deep, even enormous gratitude to you, Mr President, for giving us your full support. I think that these are not just my words – this is the opinion of the absolute majority of DPR residents. Thank you for this.
So, importantly, at this meeting, I would like to say publicly: I give you my word that I will not let you down, Mr President, and I will justify the confidence placed in me. And on behalf of my fellow countrymen and for myself, I can say with confidence: Donbass will never fail you. You can rely on us.
Donbass continues to have it rough, but this is nothing compared to what it was before, when we were face to face with the enemy. All of Russia is with us now, and I am not just referring to the fighting at the front – this is also about the rebuilding of what has been destroyed, as well as other processes that are taking place during this transitional period. We can feel this support.
Therefore, I would like to say a word of thanks for the special attitude towards the region and for the support – to the Government of the Russian Federation, to the Federation Council, and of course, to the State Duma. Special thanks to all the residents and leaders of the sponsoring regions, who are now assisting in the liberation of Donbass, doing everything they can to ensure that all of Donbass is being liberated, and of course, to ensure that the region prospers as part of the Russian Federation. Together, we can do it.
Thank you very much again.
Vladimir Putin: Good luck. Thank you.
Please, colleagues, anyone else?
Head of the Lugansk People’s Republic Leonid Pasechnik
: Mr President, Pasechnik, Lugansk, may I?
Vladimir Putin: Yes, Mr Pasechnik, please go ahead.
Leonid Pasechnik: Good afternoon, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues.
I would like to start by expressing my immense gratitude to you personally, Mr President, the United Russia party leadership, the people of the Lugansk People’s Republic, and of course, the deputies of the People’s Council of the Lugansk People’s Republic for their trust and support.
During our joint work, we have covered a fairly long and complex path and addressed a vast number of diverse issues, the solutions to which were aimed solely at improving the well-being and quality of life for the people of our republic.
I believe the results that we achieved show that the Lugansk People’s Republic has formed a sufficiently reliable, efficient, and to some extent, perhaps, professional team that is capable of overcoming the difficulties that may arise on our path and of confronting the most complex challenges of modern times.
I assure you, Mr President, that we will continue to work as one team to develop the Lugansk People’s Republic and to strengthen the might and prosperity of our great and united homeland, the Russian Federation.
Thank you once again for the trust that you placed in us. We will not let you down. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I have no doubt about it, Mr Pasechnik.
In turn, I would like to thank you for what you have done so far, and more is yet to come. All the best to you. Good luck.
Please, colleagues.
Leonid Pasechnik: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Is that all? Shall we wrap it up?
Krasnoyarsk Territory Governor Mikhail Kotyukov
: May I, Mr President? Kotyukov, Krasnoyarsk.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, please.
Mikhail Kotyukov: Mr President,
I would like to thank you for placing your faith in me. This is my first time, an entirely new experience. Your trust has been transformed into support from my fellow countrymen, the people of Siberia. Thank you very much for your attention to Krasnoyarsk Territory development issues and for the meeting that you held in August where we outlined the pressing issues that concern the people of Krasnoyarsk today.
Support during the elections is undoubtedly a significant vote of confidence, which now needs to be transformed into a programme of real actions. In this programme, we must address the pressing issues related to developing the economy, infrastructure, and social sphere, as well as, of course, supporting our military on the frontlines and their families at home, as well as expanding our defence industry.
I believe it is critically important now, as it was during the elections, to rely on the opinions of the residents of our native region about every development.
However, to address these issues, we need to bring together the efforts of the federal, regional and municipal authorities, and identify new and effective forms of cooperation with employers and entrepreneurs who work in these territories. This is the only way for us to address these priority issues, which, overall, will continue to build people’s trust in all levels of government and provide additional cohesion in the face of external challenges. I have no doubt in our ability to handle these tasks.
I will do everything in my power, everything I know and have learned while working under your guidance, to find the necessary solutions to all these issues and to improve the lives of the people of Krasnoyarsk.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Kotyukov, I wish you every success and luck. Indeed, this is a new chapter in your life and professional career.
Krasnoyarsk and the Krasnoyarsk Territory hold a special place in our country’s life, as does all of Siberia. Not only is Krasnoyarsk almost the geographical centre of Russia, but it also boasts tremendous development prospects and potential, just like the rest of Siberia and the Arctic region, since the Krasnoyarsk Territory is part of the Arctic region.
I wish success to all the elected heads of the federal constituent entities. I would like to conclude our meeting by drawing your attention to the amount of trust that the people have placed in you. Indeed, the turnout and the level of support are telltale signs. They show that people trust every one of us, you, in this particular case; they trust you specifically with much of their lives and future.
There are still many problems. Should people at long last move out of their dilapidated housing? There are many issues, lots of them, such as the lack of available places in preschools, parents still having to send their children to schools that work in three shifts, ambulance medical personnel shortages, labour market issues and demographic challenges, to name a few.
I would like to highlight something that I mentioned in my opening remarks. We have all it takes to resolve these issues, as strange as it may seem to an onlooker or doomsayers who thought that everything here would crumble. On the contrary, the economy is picking up pace, industry is working hard, the way it has not worked for a long time, agriculture is setting new records, and the construction business is growing at a pace that wasn’t seen in Soviet times.
We have everything we need to effectively follow our chosen path and to strengthen our country. But to a large extent, overall results will depend on your work in the regions.
I sincerely wish you success. All the best. 
Congratulations.
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Persons
Kotyukov Mikhail
Pasechnik Leonid
Pushilin Denis
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2023, 14:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov.
September 28, 2023
13:15
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 5
With Head of Chechnya Ramzan Kadyrov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Kadyrov.
We planned to hold today’s meeting to discuss the situation in the republic’s economy and social sphere.
Overall, the dynamics are positive. This can largely be credited to you and your team – the people are doing a great job – and your productive cooperation with the Government. We have a number of ambitious objectives and programmes, which you yourself always talk about.
I am aware that you have compiled a list of issues that you would like to discuss. Go ahead, please.
Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov
: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Thank you for taking the time to see me.
Before we begin discussing the state of affairs in the republic, I would like to say a few words about what we have been doing from the beginning of the special military operation to this day. We even wanted to report about our achievements in the humanitarian and combat areas. The unit is showing excellent results capturing prisoners and destroying [enemy’s] equipment every day. Those Abrams tanks are no threat to us. I believe we were doing some free advertising for them in a way.
Overall, the troops are in good spirits. I occasionally check on them to see how things are. We are doing everything for them, and they have no issues with communication or equipment. Since the beginning of the operation to this day, we have purchased over 1,100 vehicles, including over 100 armoured vehicles. Our republic also helps others since this is our common cause, and we must win together.
The people support you. We are the only region… I can tell you that we have put together five regiments and three battalions in the republic during this time, and they are all participating in the special military operation.
Vladimir Putin: Please convey my best wishes to them and their families. I am aware that you personally deal with these matters, including supporting the families of the personnel who are fighting on the front lines. They are fighting with great confidence, well, bravely, and heroically.
I am very pleased that you have good contacts with other units, and I am aware of what the commanders, including high-level commanders, are thinking about it. I think I have already mentioned that I asked one of them how the Chechen troops are doing in battle. He responded instantly that they are highly reliable, and that he had complete confidence in them. You see, this speaks volumes. It is an assessment provided by the commanders who are actually involved in combat operations.
So, please convey my best wishes to everyone and their families.
Ramzan Kadyrov: Mr President, if we fail to carry out your orders, we should not live in this country. We will fulfil your orders 100 percent.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
I believe your assessment of the situation in the republic is the same.
Ramzan Kadyrov: There are no particular issues in our republic. We have long since resolved all of them. We are facing some technical issues and, as always, we need your help.
<…>
Geography
Chechen Republic
Topics
Regions
Persons
Kadyrov Ramzan
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2023, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Gala concert on the 100th birth anniversary of Rasul Gamzatov
Vladimir Putin attended a gala concert to celebrate the 100th birth anniversary of the people’s poet of Dagestan Rasul Gamzatov, held at the State Kremlin Palace.
September 28, 2023
20:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 6
At a gala concert on the 100th birth anniversary of Rasul Gamzatov. Photo: Alexei Nikolskiy, RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends!
Today, here, in this auditorium, we will hear heartfelt and wise lines, poems, and songs by our national poet Rasul Gamzatov.
A faithful son of the ancient Avar people, the soul of Dagestan and all of Russia, he has been a bright star in Russian culture. Through the years, eras and generations, Gamzatov’s work carries the light of kindness, creativity and love, and like a tuning fork, attunes people’s feelings to an understanding of what is truly significant and important in our lives.
September 8 marked the 100th birth anniversary of Gamzatov. I can only thank fate for meetings with this truly great man, for the opportunity to listen to his imaginative, rich, and true folk speech, admire the depth of his thoughts and his filigree, life-loving humour.
I remember the 80th birthday of Rasul Gamzatov. Many sincere and enthusiastic words were addressed to him, to which the poet said that he treats anniversaries with irony, because, in his opinion, “an anniversary is an exaggeration of merit.”
But I believe it is impossible to exaggerate the merits of this poet, translator, publicist, writer and public figure, just as it is impossible to overestimate the creative, educational, and civic contribution of Rasul Gamzatov to Russian and world literature and to the promotion of humanism and friendship between nations and our traditional values.
Kornei Chukovsky called Gamzatov an “inquisitive sage” who tried to learn “the full meaning of things.” This is probably his most accurate characteristic. Rasul Gamzatov’s legacy goes far beyond the boundaries of art: it is more like a manual for life, where you can find answers to the most acute, most sensitive questions.
The scale of his artistic thought is just amazing. He glorifies nature, humanism, patriotism; he turns to history and the past as lessons to learn, and instructs young people to remain faithful not only to the ways of their fathers, but also to their courage, conscience, and honour.
And of course, we hold Gamzatov’s legendary Cranes and other piercing poems about frontline soldiers, the generation of winners, and the Great Patriotic War infinitely dear.
No matter what Rasul Gamzatov wrote about, the source of his enormous soul and poetry was always his native Dagestan. He loved it selflessly, and I know that this love is mutual.
Gamzatov inspired Dagestanis to both labour and military feats. This was the case in 1999, when together, as a united country, we rebuffed the aggression of international terrorism. I will never forget those days, months and weeks, the courage of the people, their firm determination to defend their home and our entire Fatherland. The entire country will remember the Dagestan of that time. (Applause.)
Gamzatov’s poems, like our entire culture, literature, and great history, inspire us today, as the fate of Russia is being decided, as we defend everything dear to us, our future, truth and justice.
I know that Gamzatov is much more than a national hero for his fellow countrymen: he is someone beloved, so the poet’s 100th birth anniversary is celebrated by many in Dagestan as a family holiday.
At the same time, while dedicating hundreds of his poems to the mountains of the Caucasus, he considered Russian Field to be the best song about Russia. He even suggested making it the national anthem of Russia. He did not separate himself from the country and often introduced himself as “an ambassador for our great country,” adding “representing all its ethnic groups.”
Do you remember his famous line? “In Dagestan, I am an Avar, in Russia, I am a Dagestani, and abroad I am Russian.” Here it is, Gamzatov’s formula for Russia, which is unique in its language, ethnic diversity, and strong unity of original cultures, which in each century gives birth to brilliant, outstanding talents.
In one of his interviews, Rasul Gamzatov noted that “statesmen are often quoted” while it should be better the other way around, for “statesmen to quote poets.” And he, a great thinker, was certainly right. His poems are a collection of truths, a universe where good reigns, a story about the true purpose of humanity.
Of course, we can all relate to his lines that “there are only two worthy purposes” that should motivate a man to action. One is love for a woman: the keeper of the hearth, mother, wife, daughter, and the other:
Love for the native land
Which is in our flesh and blood
And became an ever burning star.
These feelings guided the poet, too. Gamzatov always wrote only about what he knew, understood, loved and felt. He lived and worked with an open heart to people. This sincerity gives his words, beliefs, and legacy that special power over which time shall have no dominion.
Thank you for your attention. Have a good evening.
Topics
Culture
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 28, 2023, 20:10
Text version