Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov, Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Industry and Trade, Russian co-chair of the Russian-Emirati Intergovernmental Commission on Trade, Economic and Technical Cooperation Denis Manturov, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office – Presidential Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov, presidential aides Igor Levitin, Maxim Oreshkin and Yury Ushakov, Russia’s Ambassador to the UAE Timur Zabirov, as well as Head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov, Central Bank Governor, heads of the Roscosmos State Corporation, Russian Direct Investment Fund, Rosatom State Corporation, Rosoboronexport, VEB.RF State Development Corporation, and other officials took part in the talks on Russia’s side.
President of the United Arab Emirates Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan : Welcome, my dear friend Vladimir Putin, to the United Arab Emirates. I am glad to see you again.
In addition to this, I would like to mention that the United Arab Emirates and the Russian Federation have been working together and cooperating within various international frameworks. For example, we work together within BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, where the Emirates were granted dialogue partner status in May 2023. We are also developing and promoting the strategic dialogue between the Russian Federation and the Gulf Cooperation Council.Events
Russian-Saudi talks
A meeting between Vladimir Putin and Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud took place in the Saudi King’s al-Yamamah Palace.
December 6, 2023
22:00
Riyadh
10 of 13
With Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud. Photo: Sergei Savostyanov, TASS
At the Conclusion of the Visit of Vladimir Putin to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia a Joint Statement has been adopted.
Beginning of Russian-Saudi talks
Crown Prince, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud
(retranslated): We can find many topics and subjects of common interest, on which we are working together to promote stability and development around the world, including in the Middle East.
Over the past seven years, we have achieved a lot in our bilateral relations, for example, in the energy sector, investment and agriculture.
See also
Working visit to the the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
December 6, 2023
In addition, our political cooperation and interactions have had a positive influence on several Middle Eastern issues and helped enhance security. Moreover, our future political ties and cooperation will, no doubt, have a positive bearing on the international environment.
We have broad and far-reaching opportunities ahead of us, and by seizing them we can work together for the benefit of our nations and the entire world.
I would like to reiterate, Mr President, that you are a cherished guest here in Saudi Arabia. We welcome you on behalf of its government and its people.
Welcome!
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you. Your Highness, first, I would like to thank you for the invitation.
We expected to see you in Moscow. I know that the circumstances have affected these plans. But, as I said, nothing can prevent the development of our friendly relations. Indeed, being in this region on a scheduled visit to the United Arab Emirates, I used your invitation to come and see you and all our friends that we have been vigorously developing our interaction with over the past seven years.
That said, the next meeting will hopefully take place in Moscow.
Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud (retranslated): Of course, we are ready.
Vladimir Putin: Agreed.
Indeed, the Soviet Union was among the first to recognise the independent state of Saudi Arabia. This was almost a hundred years ago. Our relations have developed in different ways during this time.
Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud: I would like to note that it was the development of independence rather than the independence of a state that was recognised at that time.
Vladimir Putin: In any event, we respected the will of the subjects of Saudi Arabia to build their future independently.
Much has happened in our relations during this time, but over the past seven years, they have certainly reached a truly unprecedented level. This was achieved owing to the wise policy of your father, the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King of Saudi Arabia with your direct participation.
We have stable, very good ties in political interaction, the economy and in humanitarian area.
And, of course, it is now very important for all of us to exchange information and views on what is taking place in the region. No doubt, our meeting is timely. Thank you very much for your invitation, once again.
Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud: Welcome!
<…>
Additional
Working visit to United Arab Emirates
December 6, 2023
Geography
Saudi Arabia
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Al Saud Mohammed bin Salman
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 6, 2023, 22:00
Text version