Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a videoconference meeting with Government members. The meeting focused on the main areas of tax administration in 2023, as well as topical current issues.
February 15, 2023
18:55
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Government members (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
, deputy prime ministers Viktoria Abramchenko
,Tatyana Golikova
, Alexander Novak
, Marat Khusnullin
and Dmitry Chernyshenko
, Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Dmitry Grigorenko
, Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Deputy Prime Minister – Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, and Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
. Minister of Labour and Social Protection Anton Kotyakov
, Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Maksut Shadayev
, Head of the Republic of Mordovia Artem Zdunov
, Governor of the Chelyabinsk Region Alexei Teksler
, Head of the Federal Tax Service Daniil Yegorov
, Head of the Executive Committee of the Russian Popular Front Mikhail Kuznetsov, Chairman of the Management Board of the RUSNANO Management Company Sergei Kulikov and Chairman of the VEB.RF State Development Corporation Igor Shuvalov
were also invited to the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mishustin, colleagues, good afternoon.
Our agenda today includes a very important issue that is far from just a technical one, on the main areas of tax administration in 2023. Mr Yegorov will report on this.
But first of all, I would like to ask Mr Kotyakov to update us on the issue of social payments, which we increased by 11.9 percent on February 1, based on actual inflation. The increase in payments affected a total of 16 million people.
Mr Kotyakov, there is money, the source has been identified, the Government has resolved all issues. How is the technical work proceeding?
(Anton Kotyakov reported to the President on the progress of work on transferring social payments to different categories of people and their adjustment for inflation, as well as on the rules of allocating allowances and processing them. Replying to the President’s question, the minister described how social support measures were being carried out in the four new regions – the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions.
At the President’s request, Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov reported on the production of optical fibre in Russia. He recalled that the country mastered its manufacture in 2016. Before that, all optical fibre was imported from Europe and Japan. Today, the only producer of fibre for telecom in the entire EAEU is Optic Fibre Systems, a company in Saransk (Mordovia). Its production capacity was increased to 4 million kilometres of fibre per year, which meets almost half of the domestic demand. To fully cover the market, the company drafted a comprehensive investment project. It will expand the company's capacity to 10 million kilometres of fiber per year, allowing it to meet the requirements of not only Russia but also other EAEU member-states. There are already agreements with the Republic of Belarus. Denis Manturov stressed that the project is crucial for the telecom sector, considering the Digital Economy national programme and the need to expand the coverage of high-speed data transmission. Chairman of the VEB.RF State Development Corporation Igor Shuvalov and Head of the Republic of Mordovia Artem Zdunov commented on the minister’s report.
Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Maksut Shadayev explained how they are transferring
mass-scale social services to electronic format. To this end, a big platform was built, in part for the regional and municipal authorities. They are at different digitisation levels and many of them were not even technically equipped to receive electronic requests from the website. There is a very big system, embracing about 60,000 officials and 7,000 government bodies, which will be used as a first step to creating the large platform Gostech. The officials in the current system review incoming requests and make decisions on rendering relevant services. This is a big inter-departmental project. Mr Shadayev also spoke about the introduction of digital document copies.
Head of the Federal Tax Service Daniil Yegorov reported on the main theme of the meeting – major areas of tax administration in 2023.)
Topics
Taxes
Persons
Kotyakov Anton
Manturov Denis
Mishustin Mikhail
Shadayev Maksut
3 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 15, 2023, 18:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with leader of New People party Alexei Nechayev
The President met with Alexei Nechayev, the head of the New People party faction in the State Duma.
February 15, 2023
19:45
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 5
Alexei Nechayev, the head of the New People party faction in the State Duma.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Nechayev, deputies from your party and its faction in Parliament head two State Duma committees – on small and medium businesses and on tourism. But the interests of the party and its faction in the Duma are, of course, much broader – you deal with many issues.
Let us talk about your priorities.
Leader of the New People party Alexei Nechayev
: Mr President,
We, the New People party, understand that there is no other choice than to build a strong country, a state that enjoys respect in the world, and we are already achieving this.
It is very important to have economic and technological self-sufficiency. Only this will allow our children and grandchildren to live in a rich, prosperous and peaceful country. But we will not achieve peace if we do not have superiority over our opponent. I do not have to tell you that our opponent is a top professional with a bad conscience – he can do one thing face-to-face, while tacitly feeding subversives that are aiming at historical Russia. Therefore, superiority is a must.
Our party supports your adopted course of building a strong and independent Russia. We are working for this in cooperation with the Government and our colleagues in the State Duma. Over the past year, the government reviewed over 70 of our initiatives and over 30 of them were carried out. This is certainly a very good result.
As for the State Duma, there is an atmosphere of unity there. It is very important to realise that unity does not mean uniformity where everyone is the same. Unity lies in diversity when different positions are expressed and honest debate begins. The debates may be heated but the goal is, of course the same – the benefit of Russia.
There were heated debates: should we put the economy on a military track? Should we introduce state regulation of prices? We are reassuring our colleagues by pointing to the fact that the military industry has already been put on a military track.
As for market principles, Russia is so strong largely because it has a market economy. I can see that people hear this. It would be rational for the country to have an industrial policy, a new industrialisation and even protectionism, although we are still not accustomed to talking about it. We have always been open and friendly, but we are all sick of playing a game where the deck is stacked against us.
Thank you for supporting the same common-sense positions because people are certainly listening closely to you. Thank you for seeing it this way.
Vladimir Putin: I would like to thank you for your position, It is very important today.
Alexei Nechayev: A year ago, I told you about a big project called I’m in Business. It is aimed at developing youth entrepreneurship. You listened to this with great interest and supported this project.
We did a lot in the past year. We opened branches in 62 regions and involved over 85,000 students and schoolchildren in this educational programme. Firstly, it is obvious that there is a big demand for this – people want to do things themselves, achieve their goals and, frankly, make money. I am all for that – it is great when people are in business. Practical patriotism comes in all different varieties, and this is one of them.
This year, we are planning to launch this programme in the new regions as well. I know from our activists that people in Lisichansk and Severodonetsk mostly earn money through what is called small business. Moreover, they not only make money but ensure that all the necessary supplies are available. Strange as it may seem but there is a big business boom in Donetsk and Lugansk. Not only our activists are telling me about this. Denis Pushilin also confirmed this during our meeting.
So, if you support this, we will be moving there as well.
Vladimir Putin: Of course.
Alexei Nechayev: In general, young people in the country see that there are opportunities to reach their potential. If we want, I am sure we can make them honestly feel that they can make it here. And maybe let the people who left the country develop a healthy sense of envy for those who stayed, because of course Russia needs us more than any other place.
Vladimir Putin: Exactly so. I know you have some proposals.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Nechayev Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 15, 2023, 19:45
Text versionEvents
Video address to expanded meeting of Emergencies Ministry Board
February 15, 2023
11:10
Video address to expanded meeting of Emergencies Ministry Board.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades,
Welcome to the expanded Board meeting of the Ministry of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief.
During our previous meeting in this format a year ago, we talked about the ministry’s priorities and the need to improve performance at all its departments, and held an in-depth discussion on the ministry’s technological modernisation and structural streamlining.
I hope that today we will also focus on systemic issues and on things that need to be adjusted.
I would like to emphasise that the Emergencies Ministry has always been an integral part of our country’s security system, and the protection of our citizens and our economy from many potential threats directly depends on your professionalism and the coordination of your efforts.
Last year, the ministry’s staff acted promptly during flood relief operations in Yakutia, Crimea, the Krasnodar Territory and the Kemerovo Region (Kuzbass). You did a great deal to put out wildfires and industry-related fires in the Urals, Siberia and the Far East.
I would like to say that since the start of the special military operation, the ministry’s staff have been working to deliver food and medicines to the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions, cleared mines, helped rebuild social facilities, evacuated people from the zones of fire, provided assistance to people at temporary accommodation centres, and did this courageously and decisively.
People in other countries are grateful for the assistance of Russian rescue teams. In 2022, we conducted 35 international humanitarian missions.
Last week, the ministry’s forward groups were among the first to help the victims of devastating earthquakes in Turkiye and Syria. Our rescue workers, dog handlers, doctors and psychologists were working around the clock, rapidly deploying mobile hospitals, organising search and rescue operations and thereby saving the lives and health of many people.
I would like to thank the ministry’s leadership and its military and civilian staff for their responsible attitude to tackling their tasks, for their professionalism and for providing assistance to people in trouble without delay and despite the risks and dangers involved.
Esteemed board meeting participants,
Today, the ministry’s staff and its territorial divisions and special bodies have been set important and significant tasks.
First of all, efforts will continue to supply modern firefighting, rescue and other equipment to the ministry. The timeframe and supply volumes specified in the ministry’s technological modernisation programme must be complied with.
Serious attention must be given to outfitting and equipping firefighters and rescue specialists. Everything must be of the best quality, comfortable, meet all modern standards and requirements, and, of course, take into account the climate and other territorial specifics of our country.
It is important to redouble efforts to create the ministry’s territorial bodies, first of all in the Lugansk and Donetsk people’s republics and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions. Firefighting and other rescue services and units must have everything they need for providing effective assistance to people. I would like the ministry’s leadership to give priority attention to this sphere of operation.
It is necessary to improve the civil defence system, including in light of the new challenges and the experience of operations in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and liberated territories.
Other priorities include the introduction of new technologies and modern information resources in the ministry’s work. In particular, digitisation will help us conduct oversight more efficiently, without creating excessive obstacles to businesses while ensuring the interests of our citizens.
Another relevant task is to prevent industry-related fires. You must use a risk-based approach when inspecting organisations, keeping a close eye on compliance with fire safety regulations and bearing in mind that any shortcoming might lead to trouble.
I have no doubt that Russian rescue professionals will continue to do their duty as they are expected to, and will act quickly and effectively.
I would like to wish you success.
Thank you.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 15, 2023, 11:10
Text versionEvents
Opening healthcare facilities in Russian regions
The President participated, via videoconference, in a ceremony marking the opening of new healthcare facilities in several Russian regions.
February 15, 2023
18:05
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
2 of 2
Vladimir Putin participated, via videoconference, in a ceremony marking the opening of new healthcare facilities in several Russian regions.
Taking part in the event were Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Health Minister Mikhail Murashko
, the heads of the Kabardino-Balkarian Republic, the Krasnoyarsk Territory, the Lipetsk, Saratov and Zaporozhye regions and the directors of new healthcare facilities.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Today we are opening several new healthcare facilities in various Russian regions. I should note that some of them are already open while others are preparing to receive patients shortly.
These facilities include district hospitals, outpatient and walk-in clinics in the Saratov, Belgorod, Lipetsk regions, the Kabardino-Balkarian Republic, the Krasnoyarsk Territory and the Zaporozhye Region. In the latter, like in Donbass and the Kherson Region, despite all the challenges, restoration of social infrastructure is underway, including the healthcare system. I would like to ask the Ministry of Health to continue focusing on this effort.
We still have much to do to improve the accessibility and quality of medical care in the country as a whole, from large federal medical centres to district outpatient clinics and village first-aid stations. With this aim in view, we are implementing the Healthcare national project and have launched regional programmes to modernise local clinics since 2021. These resources were used to build some of the facilities we are opening today. Overall, these programmes include over 10,000 first-aid healthcare facilities. The funding was used to repair hospital buildings and outpatient clinics, build new facilities and purchase machinery, equipment and vehicles.
Our modernisation programmes will certainly continue this year, and here I would like to remind you of the possibility of advance financing within the budget limits for 2024. We have discussed this with our colleagues in the Government, and we have this opportunity. This approach will make it possible to quickly implement the plans, which means increasing accessibility to medical care for millions of people. I ask Ms Golikova and Mr Murashko, as well as the heads of the respective regions, to keep this matter under personal review and to ensure the expeditious implementation of primary care modernisation programmes.
I see Ms Golikova nodding her head. We have repeatedly talked about this. This can and should be done.
Again, we still have a lot to do to ensure that every Russian, regardless of the region they live in, receives high-quality and up-to-date medical care. This is not only about better medical equipment and facilities. Other key priorities include building up capacity to provide specialised and high-tech care, improving the education level of medical personnel, as well as the wider use of advanced information technologies, including so-called digital assistants, which help doctors make diagnoses and reduce the time spent on paperwork.
We are repeating some things again. People who are not versed in the industry still find it unusual that big data systems can help in diagnosing patients. This is amazing but true, and it improves the quality of the work.
In conclusion, I would like to once again congratulate all the participants on today's event. I wish you continued success in your work.
And I certainly would like to congratulate the patients who will soon take advantage of all the opportunities the new healthcare facilities can provide.
I am now giving the floor to Healthcare Minister Mikhail Murashko. I would like to ask you to report in more detail on the implementation of the programmes to modernise primary care in general, including this year’s plans to build or overhaul medical facilities.
Please go ahead, Mr Murashko.
Minister of Health Mikhail Murashko: Thank you very much.
Mr President, colleagues,
The construction and reconstruction of medical facilities is our priority.
To begin with, I would like to say that despite the challenges of the epidemiological situation and economic issues, we continued building and developing the medical infrastructure. In the past few years, we have transferred over 200 billion rubles in subsidies to the regions.
In line with your instructions, since 2021 we have been implementing the project to modernise primary healthcare that is part of the National Healthcare project. Due to this, the population has received access to more than 3,600 new and updated facilities, including 3,500 first-aid stations that are the most needed part of the medical service.
In addition to construction, we are providing healthcare facilities with medical equipment. Every sixth facility has received new medical equipment. Today, over 50 million people can see these changes.
Of course, the creation of new large medical centres goes alongside this work. Today, over 50 of them have been put into operation: nine oncological centres – we are at one of them now, which will start operating in a couple of days; 14 children’s hospitals and many other important facilities. In addition, more than 40 infectious disease hospitals were built during the pandemic.
I would like to stress that the construction of 787 healthcare facilities was completed last year. I will mention some of the largest facilities put into service in the Kemerovo Region, in the city of Mezhdurechensk, where people have been waiting for this for a longtime, two infectious disease hospitals – in the Saratov Region and in Orenburg, and over 700 first-aid healthcare stations.
I cannot help but mention staffing issues because to make all of these facilities work and to provide quality and accessible medical care, we need human resources, which are a key component and our most precious reserve. We have increased the scale of education per specialty by almost 19 percent. We have also increased the training of specialized doctors under residency programs in the past three years by 30 percent.
I would like to note that the regions that are heavily involved in staffing policy are suggesting their own incentives. There are a number of regions where outpatient clinic staffing is close to 100 percent – the Belgorod Region, Tatarstan, Bashkortostan, the Tyumen Region, and the Chechen Republic. Support for this approach from the regional governors is very important.
Mr President, I would like to thank you for supporting primary healthcare workers. Special social payment benefits will become an additional, powerful incentive for increasing staffing. Payment benefits for almost half a million medical workers have already been allocated. Some 83 percent of institutions have submitted the lists required for the allocation. This very sensitive change has had a big response from the professional community. We have received many questions from the regions and medical institutions and are answering all of them, and of course, we are keeping this under our supervision.
In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about our plans for 2023. They provide for the construction of another 1,200 medical facilities, of which over 900 are village primary care stations. We have adopted a comprehensive approach to these stations – now all of them that do not have a pharmacy, have received a pharmaceutical license. This applies to 35,000 village stations. Also, primary healthcare stations are fitted with only digital equipment for online communications. So, now we are implementing the concept of digital primary care stations.
In addition to first- primary care stations, we are planning to open 27 major facilities, including seven buildings for oncological dispensaries, children’s hospitals, and a children’s rehabilitation centre in Podolsk. We are working on the latter under your instructions.
Today, we are launching nine healthcare facilities, thereby setting a good pace for the development of our entire medical network.
Allow me to start the opening, please.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, we have ambitious plans for the development of healthcare in the country, and despite the difficulties created from outside, we will not just implement them all, but moreover, we have every opportunity to implement these plans ahead of schedule, including in the most sensitive areas, such as the development of primary healthcare.
This is not about the presence or absence of funding sources; again, we have the resources. The issue is organising our joint work. And here it is very important to establish coordination between the regions and the various federal authorities, primarily of course, between the Health Ministry, the social sector, and the regions. I do hope that we will work exactly as we have been working so far in order to achieve the goals that we have reached and are celebrating today.
I want to thank everyone who worked on the creation of these medical centres, on the updates, preparations, construction, and equipment installation, and wish everyone success.
Thank you. Have a good day.
Topics
Healthcare
Persons
Artamonov Igor
Balitsky Yevgeny
Busargin Roman
Gladkov Vyacheslav
4 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 15, 2023, 18:05
Text version