Events
Congratulations on Medical Worker Day
June 18, 2023
00:00
Congratulations on Medical Worker Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Medical Worker Day is, above all, a professional holiday, but millions of Russians know about it and are delighted to be able to wish doctors, paramedics, nurses and orderlies a happy holiday, tell them how much respect they have for their work, and express their gratitude and admiration.
Deep respect for medical workers has always been intrinsic to our society. However, during the most challenging times of the coronavirus pandemic, we had the opportunity to gain a fuller and deeper understanding of the importance of this profession, the kind of dedication the work of medical professionals requires, and how much fortitude and care is needed to save lives and to nurse patients back to good health.
Friends, you help people preserve their health and often save human lives. Your knowledge, competencies, skills, your desire to improve your qualifications, to be professional and to use innovative technology and treatment methods are tremendously important. No less significant, though, is your kind and caring attitude to your patients.
From the bottom of my heart, I wish a happy holiday to everyone who works at federal and regional medical institutions, district and municipal hospitals and outpatient clinics, at rural paramedic centres, as well as the air ambulance professionals, ambulance teams and Emergencies Ministry specialists who are always there and ready to ride or fly to help patients.
Special words of gratitude go to the doctors who are fulfilling their professional duty as part of the special military operation, risking their lives to save wounded troops.
The Russian medical community maintains strong traditions of succession and mentorship, brilliant research schools and devotion to the medical profession, which is inseparable from compassion and generosity of spirit that is also shown today by medical workers in Donbass and Novorossiya.
Once again, happy holiday to our medical workers. Good luck and all the best.
Topics
Healthcare
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 18, 2023, 00:00
Text version