Events
Ceremony for presenting state decorations
The ceremony for presenting the highest state decorations of the Russian Federation took place at the Kremlin’s St Catherine Hall.
May 23, 2023
15:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
11 of 56
Ceremony for presenting state decorations. The title of the Hero of the Russian Federation was awarded to Alexander Kolesov, a volunteer, deputy commander of the 2nd BARS detachment, the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). Photo: Vyacheslav Prokofyev, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
Today here, in the Kremlin, we are honouring outstanding Russians whose hard work and heroic deeds, selfless service to the Fatherland make a significant, outstanding contribution to our country’s development.
Thanks to you, a history of achievements is being written that we admire and are proud of. The foundation is being strengthened for further movement forward, for multiplying the best traditions that our country and all our multinational people are famous for.
Friends, your life is an example that proves every day that a sincere love for the Fatherland is a powerful driving force, as well as the desire to work for the common good and achieve outstanding success in various fields.
State thinking, impartiality and loyalty to the fundamental principles of law distinguish Valery Zorkin’s many years of work as President of the Constitutional Court. Mr Zorkin consistently upholds the supremacy of the Basic law, the letter and spirit of the Constitution.
A huge merit in strengthening Russian statehood and federalism, interethnic harmony, the socioeconomic development of Tatarstan and indeed all of Russia certainly belongs to Mintimer Shaimiyev, a strong and extraordinary politician, a man of exceptional wisdom and responsibility.
It is a great honour for me to present Mr Zorkin and Mr Shaimiyev with Russia’s highest decoration: the Order of St Andrew the Apostle.
The quality of people’s lives directly depends on the efficient and well-coordinated work of various branches and levels of government. I want to thank all my colleagues who work with full dedication in this most important field for Russia: the civil service.
Friends,
Feeling like being a part of the destiny of our homeland, being ready to defend its national interests has always distinguished the Russian people. Today, we are welcoming in this room the participants in the special military operation who represent the entire multi-ethnic community of our country.
We are proud of their valour and courage. Alexander Kolesov not only accomplished his combat mission but also evacuated his wounded comrades from a location that came under heavy shelling. He was awarded the title of Hero of Russia. Captain Dmitry Rasputikov of the National Guard Special Forces acted with courage and resolve. Today he is awarded the Order of Courage.
We pay tribute to the courage of all soldiers, to the bravery and tenacity of specialists helping to organise peaceful life in the new regions.
Soldiers from different republics and regions of our country are among those who are defending the future of Russian statehood. Together, they are fighting for their Motherland, for Russia.
Today’s recipients include representatives of Russia’s traditional religions. Words uttered by a pastor, a spiritual advisor are always very important, especially for soldiers at the frontline.
Education is a high and complicated mission, particularly when it comes to rising generations. The school and teachers play a crucial role in this respect. They convey not only knowledge but also values and moral precepts that determine a person’s deeds and actions for years to come.
It is with sincere respect that I will bestow awards on the teachers whose students have become Heroes of Russia.
Bringing up children is both a joy and daily hard work. Reverence for families with many children is among the traditions kept by the people of Russia. I am glad to welcome in this room Lyudmila Badmayeva and Medni Kadyrova, who are awarded the title of Mother Heroine.
Friends,
I want to thank in particular those who maintain the functioning of strategically important sectors, including defence and high-technology plants, those who often have to work under a hectic business schedule.
The aerospace industry spearheads the development and introduction of high technology, while the professionalism of Russian cosmonauts invariably commands respect and pride.
Pyotr Dubrov and Oleg Novitsky performed complicated and lengthy space walks and worked effectively as part of the ISS team. It is my pleasure to present them with their well-deserved decorations.
And, of course, all of us are united by the multifaceted Russian culture, its extraordinary creative energy and diversity of talents. It performs a crucial humanitarian mission and serves as a link between countries and generations.
I sincerely congratulate all of you, friends. I wish you good health, wellbeing and new achievements.
Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Just now, a doctor from Donbass, a children’s doctor, said that for the past nine years, Donbass has been repelling attacks on the people who live there. For nine years, our enemy, the enemy of our people, has been waging a war against them.
We often hear that Russia started some war. No, through the special military operation, Russia is trying to stop the war waged against us, against our people, part of whom found themselves beyond the borders of the historical Russian state due to a historical injustice.
But they did not cease to be our people. Russia is doing everything it can to protect them. And, of course, it will do everything in its power – to a large extent, thanks to such people that are present here, in this hall. Because wherever you are working, whatever you are doing, your activities are aimed at strengthening our state.
Mr Shaimiyev reminisced today and told us what happened, how our country has been building itself up over the past few years, and what we have achieved – we have become much more self-sufficient. There can be no sovereignty without self-sufficiency. And we are achieving it in all spheres, in art, science, production and of course, military affairs.
Yes, we talked about it repeatedly today: Russia is going through difficult times. We also said that there have never been trouble-free times. But today is a special moment for our powerful consolidation, the intensification of our national identity, the desire to strengthen the foundations of our spirituality, no matter what it takes, and create an environment for the economy, production and raising our young people to ensure a secure future for our country. And you are making your meaningful, tangible contribution to this.
Thank you so much for that. I wish you success.
(Applause.)
Topics
State decorations
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2023, 15:10
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of the Constitutional Court Valery Zorkin
The President had a working meeting with President of the Constitutional Court Valery Zorkin at the Kremlin.
May 23, 2023
18:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 5
With President of the Constitutional Court Valery Zorkin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Zorkin.
President of the Constitutional Court Valery Zorkin
: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: I am very happy to see you, Mr Zorkin. The Constitutional Court is a key element in the country’s legal and judicial system.
Vladimir Zorkin: One of the keys.
Vladimir Putin: I am very glad to see you today and would like to congratulate you once again on your state decoration. Thank you very much.
Vladimir Zorkin: Thank you, Mr President.
First of all, we have summed up some results for 2022 (unfortunately, the book of selected rulings that I present to you every year has not yet been put together) and some results through May 2023.
Here is what I would like to say briefly in this regard.
The number of applications and corresponding rulings by the Constitutional Court remained approximately the same with 12,000, give or take, since 2019. Of these, Constitutional Court rulings account for approximately 3,700. Why this difference? Because the others are items not within the purview of the Constitutional Court. There were suits filed by people who were not given apartments, etc.
Why am I drawing your attention to this commendable stability regarding rulings and appeals? You may remember that when Russia withdrew from the Strasbourg Court [European Court of Human Rights, or ECHR], and even before that, we adopted amendments to the Constitution that complicated the procedure for appealing to the Constitutional Court. This only became possible after all the other procedures had been used, including appeals to the Supreme Court, while before that people could appeal to the Constitutional Court right from Magadan.
That decision was criticised for curtailing access [to the court], complicating things, and so on. Here is the statistics: the number of appeals was comparable in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, and we expect it to be approximately the same in 2023. In this sense, access to the Constitutional Court has not been curtailed.
The difference in the number of rulings and appeals has not changed either. Why is that? Because our citizens, a certain group of citizens, have learned to use these instruments properly. They used the correct procedure, ultimately reaching the Constitutional Court, and their problems were settled without appeals to the Strasbourg Court. I would like to say in this connection that the success of our work depends not only on the Constitutional Court but also on the Supreme Court. I believe that we are interacting appropriately in terms of the delimitation of authority, coordination and the like.
Here is what I would like to say. Back then and now, it was proposed even at the high-level conferences of constitutional lawyers that a certain constitutional presence should be created at the Supreme Court, in addition to the Constitutional Court, so that it would monitor whether constitutional rights were violated during investigations.
Our people tend to forget that our judicial system differs from that of Germany, for example, where the supreme court has the authority of the constitutional court.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, the last resort.
Valery Zorkin: Exactly. But in Russia, the Supreme Court is not only the court of cassation but also of supervision. In this sense, it is the last resort for general jurisdiction courts. Therefore, the Constitutional Court did not protest the multiplication of essences and division of authority because it feared that it would have fewer cases, but rather…
Vladimir Putin: This issue has not been raised in practical terms.
Valery Zorkin: No, it has not, and I think that this is understandable.
Here is another aspect regarding our performance: the breakdown by the type of law remains just about the same. Civil law and civil litigation come first, along with business-related disputes. Criminal proceedings and criminal law place second. Labour and social issues are next in line, but they are not the first on the list. This also highlights a certain stability in this sphere.
Vladimir Putin: Of course. Economic relations come first.
Valery Zorkin: Complaints dealing with political rights, etc. are the last in line. Apparently, it was predicted that all this would amount to a nationwide groundswell, in connection with this or that situation. However, our objective survey shows that people are more concerned about the rights that I have mentioned. By the way, the latter category features ten times fewer complaints.
Certainly, there are some exotic aspects. For example, we have recently adopted a decision linked with artificial …
Vladimir Putin: Intelligence?
Valery Zorkin: Artificial fatherhood.
Vladimir Putin: In vitro fertilisation.
Valery Zorkin: The issue of transness has come into the spotlight. I believe that lawmakers will probably address this issue somehow. As far as we are concerned, one way or another, things will work out, so to speak.
On the whole, as I have said, one should keep in mind that the number of the Constitutional Court’s justices was changed in 2020. We had 19 justices, and now we have 11; however, their workload remains the same. However, I do not think that the workload has increased to the degree that it has become unbearable. The Constitutional Court is coping because it has a rather efficient auxiliary staff, among other things. As I see it, everything is all right from this standpoint. As justices, we wanted to inform you about this circumstance.
Perhaps you would like to ask some questions?
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much for sharing this with me.
Valery Zorkin: I would like to use this occasion to say that we have found a copy of a 17th-century map at the Constitutional Court. It was made by the French during the reign of Louis XIV, and dated back to the middle or the beginning of the second half of the 17th century. Why have I brought it? Mr President, there is no Ukraine on that map.
Vladimir Putin: No, of course not.
Valery Zorkin: No Ukraine. There are two other territories, Rzeczpospolita and Cossackia, as well as the large Tsardom of Russia.
Why have I risked showing you this map? Because of the numerous speculations about the origins and appearance [of states].
Vladimir Putin: Well, we know that these territories were part of Rzeczpospolita but later they asked to be incorporated into the Tsardom of Muscovy, and that is how they became part of the Tsardom of Muscovy. It was only after the October Revolution that various quasi-states appeared and the Soviet government created Soviet Ukraine. It is a well-known fact. Before that, there was no Ukraine in the history of humankind.
Valery Zorkin: I did not tell you this because criminal proceedings have been instituted in Ukraine against all judges of the Constitutional Court…
Vladimir Putin: Really?
Valery Zorkin: …for the rulings we made in 2014 and in connection with the special military operation. I just wanted to speak the truth.
Vladimir Putin: This is clear. It is just one of the documents. Where was the map made? Is it a French map. Is it in the archives?
Valery Zorkin: Yes, we have a copy, and the original document is in the Louvre in France.
Here is a short description of the map. There are several mistakes in it.
Vladimir Putin: Of course, not all regions of Soviet Ukraine but only its north-western part was incorporated in Rzeczpospolita.
Valery Zorkin: Exactly, which is why I said that there are minor mistakes in the description, the translation errors.
The important thing is that it was not we but the French who made it.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course, they put on the map what they saw in real life, on the ground.
Valery Zorkin: It was done during the reign of the Romanov dynasty.
Vladimir Putin: I see. Thank you very much.
See also
Ceremony for presenting state decorations
May 23, 2023
Topics
Court
Persons
Zorkin Valery
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2023, 18:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Republika Srpska Milorad Dodik
The President of Russia met with President of Republika Srpska Milorad Dodik in the Kremlin.
May 23, 2023
20:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
5 of 5
During a meeting with President of Republika Srpska Milorad Dodik. Photo: Alexei Filippov, RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am happy to see you in Moscow.
I want to welcome you and point out that relations between Russia and Republika Srpska are successfully advancing. Last year, trade grew by 57 percent. The turnover is not impressive in absolute values, but it shows a good trend. We should definitely keep this trend going.
I am aware of the interest our partners in Republika Srpska have in working with our large companies in a number of sectors. I hope this will happen. We have respective tools that can be used to achieve even greater results.
We appreciate your neutral position regarding developments in Ukraine. Only this kind of position can lead to a positive solution. But in any case, we are grateful to you for your restraint.
I know that thousands of schoolchildren in Republika Srpska study Russian, and the government supports interest in the Russian language and culture. We also appreciate that very much.
I am very glad to see you. Welcome to Russia.
President of Republika Srpska Milorad Dodik (retranslated): Thank you, Mr President.
Thank you for this meeting. We meet quite often, and I absolutely agree with your words about Russia and Republika Srpska maintaining a good level of cooperation. Of course, this meets our interests in the best sense of the word.
Republika Srpska upholds an unwavering commitment to its position on political matters. Some politicians are trying to lay all the blame on just one side. However, it is our belief that the Russian Federation was forced to launch the special military operation after persistently striving to establish a security framework and ensure security guarantees. I hope that the special military operation ends as quickly as possible.
Of course, we all want peace, and Republika Srpska has come under immense pressure in this context. I had to face demands to decide on imposing sanctions against the Russian Federation. This was followed by pressure and sanctions on behalf of our Western partners, who suspended all joint projects.
However, we decided not to be part of all this hysteria that is being whipped up, and believe that there is still a chance for the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the rest of the world to resolve this issue. We do understand that this is not a war between Ukraine and Russia, but a confrontation with the West, which is trying to use Russia for inciting war.
In any case, Republika Srpska is a stable and peaceful entity. Of course, we have to face up to the demands to dismantle the Dayton Accords, while the Russian Federation is their guarantor.
We have already lost over 100 powers guaranteed under the Dayton Accords. Republika Srpska has lost so much over the past 20 years, with all the rules which were imposed on it and violations of international law. We found ourselves in a situation where the Dayton Accords no longer served as a source of stability. We see a trend of imposing decisions primarily in the interests of the West, i.e., the United States and Brussels. In any case, we oppose these decisions and reaffirm our commitment to the Dayton Accords.
But obviously the power that the West has and that is being used against us is enormous, and we have sustained certain losses. On the other hand, you know that there is an official there who was not elected by the Security Council to be the High Representative as provided for by Dayton. And we have to inform you that he has begun to impose laws, and these laws are applied in the other part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is called the Federation. We in Republika Srpska do not recognise his authority and will not comply with the measures he imposes on us.
This all puts us in an even more difficult situation, and we are all determined to fight for the opportunities that Dayton grants us, because as soon as we accept these reforms from the West, the existence of Republika Srpska will be at risk, and it will simply cease to exist. A huge number of our people support Republika Srpska, Dayton, and an international treaty. But in the meantime, our Western partners are rejecting these attempts. Again and again, all they do is accuse Republika Srpska, all of us who lead Republika Srpska, and impose sanctions against us.
In any case, we are not prepared to give up this position and our rights, which we won with Dayton, the international agreement that is a signed document.
The situation there is calm now, there are no excesses of any kind, no ethnically motivated or other incidents, and the economy is stable. Of course, the situation is difficult after the pandemic and amid the current events. In any case, Republika Srpska is subject to pressure from our Western partners, who prevent us from developing normally. We have problems with cooperation to strengthen the economy, but I hope we will overcome that. Your companies are operating under difficult conditions, as you know. The key problem is the correspondent banks are controlled by the West, and they do not let money through. That is the problem.
<…>
Geography
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 23, 2023, 20:00
Text version