Events
Meeting with Ivanovo Region Governor Stanislav Voskresensky
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Ivanovo Region Governor Stanislav Voskresensky. The Governor reported on the development of small cities and education projects, among other issues.
May 10, 2023
13:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
The Governor of the Ivanovo Region
told the President about the efforts to develop small cities, in particular, the repairs of the intercity road network. According to the Ministry of Transport, at the end of 2022, the roads of the region were among the country’s best. Moreover, small cities in the region are linked by convenient railway routes. Governor Voskresensky said the development of small cities includes systemic improvements. Thus, 46 public spaces – parks, garden squares and embankments – saw improvements, with the opinion of local residents taken into consideration.
In addition, the Governor of the Ivanovo Region showed the President a large-scale project on an educational and cultural space. It is based at the inter-university campus in the city of Ivanovo at the former Big Ivanovo Manufactory. The cost of the 44,000-square-metre project is estimated at over 10 billion rubles. It will be financed as a public-private partnership – the Government will provide a grant of 6 billion rubles, while 4 billion rubles will come from private investment. Vladimir Putin supported the project. He told the Governor that there are similar projects in the capital, including the HPP-2 House of Culture.
Stanislav Voskresensky told the President about the construction of new schools and repairs of kindergartens in the region, as well as about support measures for the participants in the special military operation. In particular, the Ivanovo Region gives their families certificates for free higher education at its universities.
The Governor also mentioned light industry, which is a traditional branch of the Ivanovo Region’s economy. He spoke about the cluster that produces fabric and belts for parachutes, and the success of the local light industry in online trade. He reported that its revenues exceeded 50 billion rubles in 2022.
The Governor and the President also discussed the situation in agriculture, which showed growth of 21 percent in the past five years, and the relocation of defrauded investors. The Governor said the problem would be resolved before the end of this year: 441 out of 480 people will receive flats and 39 will be reimbursed with payments.
During the meeting, Stanislav Voskresensky told the President about his intention to run for the post of Governor of the Ivanovo Region in the upcoming 2023 elections. The President supported his decision.
See also
Meeting with Ivanovo Region Governor Stanislav Voskresensky
October 4, 2022
Geography
Ivanovo Region
Topics
Regions
Social services
Universities
Persons
Voskresensky Stanislav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 10, 2023, 13:30
Text version