Events
Wreath-laying at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
On Defender of the Fatherland Day, Vladimir Putin honoured the memory of the fallen soldiers by laying a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier by the Kremlin Wall and laying flowers at the Hero City obelisks and the monument in honour of the Cities of Military Glory.
February 23, 2023
12:20
Alexander Garden, Moscow
6 of 19
Wreath-laying at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, activists of public patriotic organisations, and combat veterans also laid flowers at the Eternal Flame memorial.
The event continued with a guard of honour company march.
The President also talked with combat veterans taking part in the ceremony.
* * *
Conversation with combat veterans
Roman Cheremukhin: On behalf of the participants in the special military operation please allow me to congratulate you on Defender of the Fatherland Day.
Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
In your Address to the Federal Assembly, you spoke about the creation of a state fund to support combat veterans, especially disabled veterans. I would like to thank you for supporting the participants in the special military operation. This is a very important decision for all of us.
Vladimir Putin: Comrade Lieutenant Colonel, taking care of those who defend Russia is a sacred duty of the state. This is a natural decision.
See also
Congratulations on the occasion of Defender of the Fatherland Day
February 23, 2023
I have already said that we will then integrate this fund, which you just mentioned, into a state structure. It will be state-owned anyway; we will just create a structure, I think. We should consult deputies and the Defence Ministry. We will integrate it and make it report directly to the Government. It should be a powerful, effective structure.
And most importantly – I have said this, as you have probably noticed – is that each person, each family should be assigned a separate social worker who will work with people on an individual basis. In any case, I am counting on it very much.
We will definitely ensure that this mechanism functions as it should, so that it helps people.
So it goes without saying.
Then, as the next step, we will make it part of the work with all other categories of people who deserve this and whom the state takes care of.
Roman Cheremukhin: I know a lot of people who fought as part of the Donbass militia, the People's Militia of the Lugansk People's Republic. They are combat veterans of the Lugansk and Donetsk people’s republics. But there are military personnel who left service before the regions joined…
Vladimir Putin: Before they joined Russia.
Roman Cheremukhin: Yes, before the new territories joined Russia. Most often they were discharged due to injury and were not citizens of Russia…
Vladimir Putin: So you want to make sure that this category of veterans is included in this support system, right?
Roman Cheremukhin: Exactly.
Vladimir Putin: Right.
Roman Cheremukhin: The Russian Federation Federal Law On Veterans does not cover them, so they can’t get the benefits that combat veterans and disabled combat veterans are entitled to.
Vladimir Putin: I see.
Thank you for noting this. We will absolutely fix it.
Roman Cheremukhin: It would be great if these people were given the status of a combat veteran or a disabled combat veteran of the Russian Federation so that they can receive all the state assistance they deserve.
Vladimir Putin: Of course, these are people who almost single-handedly fought for the interests of their people, for the interests of their homeland; they fought for their land. Now all of them have become citizens of Russia, and, of course, we must – and will – include them in the list of people who should be and will receive support. Absolutely. Thank you for bringing it up.
Roman Cheremukhin: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Roman Cheremukhin: Once again, happy holiday.
Vladimir Putin: The same to you and all your fellow soldiers.
Roman Cheremukhin: Thank you.
Monk Cyprian: Mr President, let me, on behalf of the older generation of combat veterans and disabled veterans, support the proposal of my comrade-in-arms: these people really deserve it. Regardless of their standing during this entire period, whether they were volunteers, militiamen or police officers, they deserve this status for their courage and heroism.
Vladimir Putin: What difference does it make for the country what standing they had? The main thing is that they served Russia.
Cyprian: One more thing to note as a monk, if you allow me. I would like to thank you for noting in your Address the service of the military clergy; for having awarded the title of Hero of the Russian Federation to our airborne father, Mikhail Vasilyev, who died near Kherson in November; and for giving instructions following the appeal of our Patriarch Kirill
of Moscow and All Russia to draft a bill, which has now been prepared, on additional guarantees that will affect our priesthood, so that they [military clergy] will be able to receive payments in case of injury or, God forbid, their death.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I have spoken with the Patriarch quite recently. We met and discussed all these issues; His Holiness did raise this issue. Of course, absolutely. And how is a priest who walks under bullets and shells different from all other military personnel? In that sense, there is practically no difference. And of course, we will keep that in mind.
Cyprian: The Defence Ministry will do everything now.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I have no doubt that this will be the case.
You spoke about my Address. And you know, of course, it is very difficult to listen to everything – it lasts almost two hours – and I would probably have difficulty listening to all this if I had to: it is easier to speak than to listen.
You noted what concerns the priests directly. But you know what I would like to recall now? I can see that the people standing behind are quite young: the day before yesterday, when I delivered my Address, my last words were that the truth is on our side. When I look at these people, I want to add: and the future is definitely ours.
But there can be no future without support for such brave people that represent our army, without support for the clergy. We count on this in our future joint work, too.
Cyprian: Our clergy will not let you down. Thank you for your support.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Goodbye and all the best! Best regards.
Happy holiday!
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 23, 2023, 12:20
Text versionEvents
Congratulations on the occasion of Defender of the Fatherland Day
In a video address, Vladimir Putin congratulated veterans, military and civilian personnel of the Armed Forces and all Russian citizens on this holiday.
February 23, 2023
00:00
Congratulations on the occasion of Defender of the Fatherland Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade officers, veterans,
Please accept my greetings on this holiday, Defender of the Fatherland Day!
This national holiday epitomises the heroic history of our Army and Navy and the unbreakable link connecting all generations of defenders of the Fatherland. It embodies our deep gratitude to the faithful sons and daughters of the Fatherland, to all those who did not spare themselves as they fought the enemy defending their native land and their people, underwent trials with honour and emerged as a victor, and who crushed foreign invasions. So it was at Lake Chudskoye and on Kulikovo Field, near Poltava and Borodino, and in the victorious May of 1945.
On this day, deep respect and the warmest words go to our dear veterans who defeated Nazism and upheld the freedom and independence of the Motherland. Your feats during the Great Patriotic War will forever remain in the historical memory of our people as a vivid example of patriotism and courage and will serve as an inexhaustible source of spiritual strength. The current generation of Russian soldiers and officers preserves and enhances the military traditions of their grandfathers and great-grandfathers.
I would like to extend my heartfelt greetings on this holiday to our military personnel, volunteers, mobilised citizens, and specialists in various professions who are participating in the special military operation. Our troops are heroically fighting the neo-Nazism that has taken root in Ukraine, protecting our people in our historical lands, and are fighting courageously and heroically.
Comrade officers,
Modern and efficient Army and Navy are a guarantee of the country's security and sovereignty, and a guarantee of its stable development and its future. That is why, as before, we will give priority attention to strengthening our defence capability.
Relying on actual combat experience, we will pursue balanced and high-quality development of all components of the Armed Forces, improve the system for training units. A solid foundation here is the soldiers, sergeants and officers who showed their worth in combat on the frontline.
We will continue to supply advanced equipment to our troops, including new strike systems, reconnaissance and communications equipment, drones and artillery systems. Our industry is quickly increasing the production of the entire range of conventional weapons and preparing for mass production of advanced models of equipment for the Army and Navy, as well as the Aerospace Forces.
As before, we will put our focus on strengthening the nuclear triad. This year, the first Sarmat missile system launchers with the new heavy missile will be put on combat duty. We will continue full production of the Kinzhal air-launched hypersonic systems and begin mass deployment of Tsirkon sea-launched hypersonic missiles.
With the Borei-A nuclear-powered submarine Emperor Alexander III becoming operational in the Navy, the share of modern weapons and equipment in the naval strategic nuclear forces will reach 100 percent. In the coming years, three more cruisers from this project will be delivered to the Navy.
Friends,
Our people believe in you, the defenders of Russia, in your reliability, resolve and devotion to the Fatherland and the oath. Millions of people are following their hearts as they help our frontline soldiers, and this unbreakable unity is the key to our victory.
Once again, happy holiday!
I wish you good health and every success in serving the Motherland, and well-being to your families and friends.
Topics
Armed Forces
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 23, 2023, 00:00
Text version