Events
Vladimir Putin took part in Moscow mayoral election
The President cast an online ballot in the Moscow mayoral election.
September 9, 2023
12:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
Vladimir Putin took part in Moscow mayoral election.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Nationwide elections began in Russia yesterday, as a result of which the composition of many regional legislative assemblies and local governments will be determined, and regional heads will be elected in 21 constituent entities, including Moscow.
Elections are a direct expression of citizens’ will an opportunity to influence the future of your city, town and country, and to empower the people you trust and who will represent and defend your interests as part of the government bodies.
I ask all citizens of the regions where the elections are taking place to participate in them, especially since the voting procedure in our country is organised in such a way as to make it as comfortable as possible. This includes the three-day work of the polling stations, and a chance to cast an online ballot.
Electronic elections get more popular every year, expanding their geography. More and more voters trust and use this tool.
I hope that each and every one of you will take an active civil stand.
Thank you.
Geography
Moscow
Topics
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 9, 2023, 12:40
Text versionEvents
Vladimir Putin congratulated Moscow residents on City Day
The President took part in celebrations marking the 876th anniversary of the foundation of Moscow at the Zaryadye Concert Hall.
September 9, 2023
13:35
Moscow
2 of 3
Vladimir Putin congratulated Moscow residents on City Day. Photo: Sergey Guneev, RIA Novosti
Address on Moscow City Day
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Sobyanin, residents of Moscow, friends,
Congratulations to all of you on Moscow Day!
Our capital, unmatched in its beauty and ancient majesty, is invariably focused on the future and rightfully represents everything that is excellent, talented and advanced. It is impressive with its rapid, dynamic development, the incessant rhythm of a huge, ambitious megalopolis, and inspiring with its creative energy and truly limitless opportunities.
See also
Launch of transport infrastructure facilities in Moscow
September 9, 2023
Since its foundation, Moscow has always been a reliable defence and solid pillar for the entire Russian state. History has determined its special role as the main city of Russia. Here beats the heart of our vast, beloved country, which today firmly defends and asserts its sovereignty.
Muscovites, like the people from all other Russian regions, are deployed in the special military operation zone, and are fighting courageously and heroically. The capital has taken patronage over Donetsk and Lugansk and is carrying out enormous, comprehensive work to restore infrastructure there. Thousands of doctors, engineers and builders, whom I would like to mention separately, as well as public utility workers, are working and helping establish peaceful life in these regions. And, of course, I would like to note and especially emphasise: workers and engineers from Moscow enterprises and industrial centres of the Moscow agglomeration play a special role and make a huge contribution to ensuring the country’s defence potential.
Our capital is responding effectively to today’s major challenges, while not retreating even one step from the implementation of its large development programmes. I would like to especially stress this: just like the entire country. We are facing many challenges that we are overcoming, but we are moving forward, developing, implementing all our plans; nothing has been cut back.
Moscow’s truly breath-taking achievements transform our idea of what a modern, comfortable and successful metropolis should be like. And here, the upgrade of the transport complex is of particular importance.
The implementation of this large project is the result of constructive and effective cooperation between federal and regional authorities, colossal work of hundreds of thousands of people, introduction of advanced technologies, outstanding engineering solutions, and breakthrough approaches to organising traffic flows.
For example, the Moscow Metro network has grown 1.5 times since 2011. This year, the Big Circle Line, the largest in the world, was launched. The third diameter of the above-ground metro has connected Moscow’s Zelenograd with Lyubertsy and Ramenskoye, Moscow Region.
The construction of numerous motorways and interchanges has in fact helped form a completely new road framework for Moscow; two up-to-date expressways and the Southern Lateral Road relieved congestion on the Moscow Ring Road and in the city centre.
New federal motorways are under construction. We have already talked about this, as you know, but I will repeat: they connect the capital with St Petersburg, and very soon a road to Kazan will open.
In short, gigantic steps have been and are being taken to develop Moscow’s transport system. It is also important that they exceeded the plans that we discussed with Mr Sergei Sobyanin back in 2010, when he first became the mayor of Moscow, the capital of Russia.
In fact, these achievements take us only halfway to completing this enormous work. We have decided to implement a large programme to upgrade the entire Central Transport Hub. In the end, the above-ground metro diameters will be extended to Kaluga and Tula, as well as other large cities in Moscow’s neighbouring regions.
The construction of high-speed railways will also be a flagman project: connecting Moscow, Tver, Veliky Novgorod and St Petersburg at the first stage, they will be followed by a route between the capital and other cities around the country.
Such projects will bring our transport infrastructure to a completely new level, really improve the lives of millions of people, and create a solid foundation for the country’s economic growth. Dozens of Russian cities will receive a powerful boost to move forward.
Friends, we are used to it that Moscow sets the highest standards to aim for, and that is, of course, an achievement of the Moscow Government, which works hard in all areas. Several days ago, the first stage of outpatient healthcare modernisation was completed: over 200 Moscow clinics got a new look, and several new, advanced, well-equipped hospitals were opened.
The city is actively building housing. Moscow parks, public gardens and green areas are being renovated. Millions of people living in Moscow take advantage of user-friendly online services, and these services are expanding very actively.
Moscow is successfully solving the most challenging tasks. Over the past five years, the volume of its industrial production has doubled. The next task is to lay the groundwork to develop promising technologies that will shape the economy not only of the capital agglomeration, but of the entire country in the future.
It is important to carry on with socially significant projects. I have already talked about this, but nevertheless I will mention some of them again.
Thousands of people are waiting to be relocated from old five-storey buildings. It is also necessary to work towards improving the quality of healthcare without slowing down, and, of course, to create an advanced educational environment for the younger generation. Moscow has done a lot in this sphere and is largely an example for other regions. However, much remains to be done, which we regularly discuss with Mr Sobyanin.
It would take a long time to name all the programmes that are to be implemented, and each one is addressed with creativity and dedication by the mayor’s team, proving with their deeds their love for Moscow and its people, as well as readiness to continue to work effectively and obtain the necessary results.
I wish Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin and his entire team every success. We will always support good initiatives in the interests of the people living in our beloved capital.
I thank all the active and caring people who live and work in Moscow, transform their beloved city and serve for the prosperity of Russia as a whole. Together we can achieve anything.
Once again, I sincerely congratulate all people of Moscow and our great country on this holiday, Moscow Day, on the day of our beautiful, majestic and at the same time young capital.
Happy City Day!
Persons
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 9, 2023, 13:35
Text versionEvents
Launch of transport infrastructure facilities in Moscow
Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in the launch of several new transport facilities of Moscow: Prospekt Bagrationa (the northern relief road of Kutuzovsky Prospekt), the southern section of the Moscow High-Speed Diameter and the fourth line of the Moscow Central Diameters (MCD-4).
September 9, 2023
13:15
Moscow
2 of 7
Launch of transport infrastructure facilities in Moscow. With Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin.
Also taking part in the launch ceremony were Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
, Governor of the Moscow Region Andrei Vorobyov
and Russian Railways CEO Oleg Belozerov
.
Prospekt Bagrationa is a toll motorway with no traffic lights with a total length of almost 22 km. It will improve transport services for people living in a number of Moscow districts and the adjacent areas of the Moscow Region with a total population of more than 1.5 million and will relieve congestion on Kutuzovsky Prospekt and Mozhayskoye highway.
The southern section of the Moscow High-Speed Diameter is a new motorway from Shosse Entuziastov to the 32nd kilometre of the Moscow Automobile Ring Road.
The fourth railway diameter, the Kaluzhsko-Nizhegorodskaya line, runs through central Moscow and connects seven railway stations. The MCD-4, which is 86 km long, will improve transport connectivity in over 20 Moscow districts, as well as relieve congestion on the capital’s motorways and several metro lines.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I would like to address all the participants in today’s events. They are undoubtedly impressive. Today, another serious step has been taken in the development of the Moscow Transport Hub.
Everything that has been done today is for the benefit of Moscow, the Moscow Region and all the people who live in this region and come here. We are talking about millions of people without any exaggeration; millions who will now have better logistics and better quality of life. This is a serious step forward for the economy.
I congratulate everyone and wish you all the best.
Thank you all very much. Good luck.
Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin: Thank you very much for your support.
Geography
Moscow Region
Moscow
Topics
Construction industry
Regions
Transport
Persons
Sobyanin Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 9, 2023, 13:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting on socioeconomic development of Smolensk Region
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, on the socioeconomic development of the Smolensk Region.
September 9, 2023
16:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
Meeting on socioeconomic development of Smolensk Region (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Acting Governor of the Smolensk Region Vasily Anokhin
and, via videoconference, by Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Culture Olga Lyubimova
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Minister of Construction, Housing and Utilities Irek Fayzullin
, Minister of Science and Higher Education Valery Falkov
, Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Kirill Lysogorsky and General Director of Russian Railways Oleg Belozerov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Anokhin, colleagues,
Today we have a regional agenda again: we will discuss the development prospects of the Smolensk Region, as well as the key socioeconomic tasks, plans, projects, and, of course, problems that are of concern for the people and require immediate solution.
But, first of all, I would like to use this occasion to congratulate all of the region’s residents on the 80th anniversary of the liberation of the Smolensk Region from Nazi occupation, as well as on the 1160th anniversary of Smolensk, which is also celebrated this year.
We all know and are proud of the huge role Smolensk has always played in history: it is a hero city and the shield of Russia.
Today, a lot of people from the Smolensk Region, carrying on the great traditions of patriotism and loyal service to the Fatherland, show true courage and valour participating in the special military operation.
I would like to thank them for being loyal to their duty and country and ask the region’s leadership to personally monitor the issue of providing all the necessary assistance and support to the heroes and their families.
Let me note that the Smolensk Region has gained momentum in several important areas of socioeconomic development, where we can see considerable achievements.
For example, the industrial production index in the first six months of this year amounted to 111.9 percent. This is seventh place in the country, and a good result in general. Moreover, industry is the most important, leading sector of the region's economy, providing for over one third of the gross regional product.
Moreover, manufacturing enterprises are growing especially well: 17.5 percent growth over six months of this year, which is higher than the Russian average.
Agriculture has good prospects, too, including in the production and deep processing of flax, rapeseed and other crops, as well as the development of livestock farming. Investment projects implemented there also produce returns. Of course, when we see this, we must understand that we need to further support these areas, support private investors and closely interact with businesses.
In fact, the task of the regional leadership and the new management team is to plan their work in order to ensure comprehensive development, actively use the tools created at the federal and regional levels to encourage business activity, launch new infrastructure, transport, logistics and other projects that are important for the improvement of territories, growth of incomes and the quality of people’s lives.
Of course, the social sphere – education, healthcare and culture – requires special care. It is important to train your own human resources to address long-term tasks the region is facing.
Students, young people studying today at colleges and universities, must know and see that their professions are needed, and that they are needed exactly where their home is, that new and well-paid jobs are created for them, and that the living conditions in villages and cities, including Smolensk, are improving. That means addressing problems in the housing and utilities sector. All this is extremely important for the people.
I believe that the new head of the region, Mr Anokhin, has had time to delve into the current state of affairs in detail, as they say, that he is up to date, and I would like to ask him to report in detail on the current indicators and development goals of the Smolensk Region.
Please, Mr Anokhin, you have the floor.
<…>
Geography
Smolensk Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Anokhin Vasily
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 9, 2023, 16:05
Text version