Events
Meeting with Vice Chairman of China's Central Military Commission Zhang Youxia
The President received Vice Chairman of China's Central Military Commission Zhang Youxia at the Novo-Ogaryovo residence outside Moscow.
November 8, 2023
15:05
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
3 of 8
Meeting with Vice Chairman of China's Central Military Commission Zhang Youxia. Photo: Sergei Bobylev, TASS
Russia’s Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
also attended the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrade Zhang Youxia,
I am very glad to see you in Russia.
You and I met several years ago, and I think it was here, in Ogaryovo, as well. This goes to say that we have a good tradition of meeting each other in the Russian presidential countryside residence.
I am delighted to see you. You probably know that I visited Beijing not that long ago, so I would like to ask you right away to convey my best wishes to President of the People’s Republic of China and express my gratitude for his warm hospitality.
In fact, we have established very friendly, personal and at the same time business-like relations which enables our two countries to maintain strategic ties.
Russia and China are not seeking to create any military alliances using Cold War-era templates and have been maintaining constructive ties which have become a serious stability factor globally.
We are also working on the economic front and have been quite effective in these efforts. There is positive momentum in our trade and economic ties, and we have been achieving the objectives we set for ourselves ahead of schedule.
Russia and China are working together within international platforms and organisations, primarily the United Nations, while also paying adequate attention to our regional associations which are increasingly emerging as global platforms. I am referring to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and BRICS.
Next year, Russia will assume the BRICS chairmanship. We really hope that together with our Chinese friends we will promote the agenda that we deem most appropriate and which holds the biggest promise while considering the interests of all the countries in this association.
Of course, it is also worth pointing out that our military and military-technical cooperation are becoming increasingly important. As for military-technical cooperation, our efforts in high-tech sectors have emerged as a primary focus. I am referring to space, high-orbit assets, as well as the latest weapons and those which are in the pipeline – they will, no doubt, ensure strategic stability for both Russia and the People’s Republic of China.
We are witnessing attempts by some countries to expand their geographical reach. As strange as it sounds, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation has been seeking to transcend its geography which, I believe, runs counter to its own statutory documents.
The United States has been increasingly intent on drawing all its allied countries into causing tension to rise across Asia Pacific by setting up new military and political alliances with regional countries. Of course, the United States is guided in its efforts primarily by its own interests and, to call a spade a spade, its vested interests.
Together with our friends, including and primarily the People’s Republic of China, we see through all this. Our response has been calm and balanced and consisted of strengthening our defence capabilities, including by holding joint naval and air force exercises. We hold them regularly, while constantly deepening our cooperation.
I am certain that your consultations and talks with the Defence Ministry of the Russian Federation will be useful and will help consolidate our ties in this sector, which has so much importance for our countries.
Welcome.
Vice Chairman of China's Central Military Commission Zhang Youxia (retranslated): Your Excellency, President of Russia.
Thank you so much for finding time for this meeting.
First, I would like to convey to you a warm welcome and best wishes on behalf of President Xi Jinping
.
I had the great honour of having two meetings with you in 2013 and 2017. Six years have passed, and today I once again have this pleasure and honour to meet with you.
Under your leadership, the Russian Federation has been firm in facing the Western sanctions, which demonstrates that no challenges can overburden you or Russia. You have China’s respect for that.
This time around, we are here in Russia to carry out the agreements you reached with President Xi and hold a regular meeting of the commission on military-technical cooperation, as well as reinforce our military cooperation.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Armed Forces
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 8, 2023, 15:05
Text versionEvents
Interview to Kazakhstanskaya Pravda newspaper
November 8, 2023
00:00
Question: Over 30 plus years Kazakhstan-Russia relations have reached a high level of strategic partnership and are developing dynamically. Thanks to what mechanisms and instruments could such results be achieved? What is being done to further promote the cooperation?
Vladimir Putin: Indeed, Kazakhstan-Russia partnership is of a particularly privileged nature and actively developing nowadays. It is based on the principles of mutual respect, recognition of sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference with home affairs. A vast legal basis (over 350 documents governing relations between our countries) proves this in particular.
We enjoy most versatile mechanisms of interstate communication. First of all, ties between presidential administrations, ministries of foreign affairs, law enforcement and justice bodies, parliaments.
Apparently, the Intergovernmental Commission on Kazakhstan-Russia Cooperation led by deputies Chairman of the Government (Alexey Overchuk and Serik Zhumangarin) plays an important role. Its regular, very productive meeting took place a week ago (30–31 October) in the ancient city of Turkestan. A stock was taken of bilateral cooperation in the field of trade, economy, industries, energy, transport, finance, culture, science, education and tourism. Plans were drawn for future.
I would especially note the good rate of growth in mutual trade turnover. Last year, it increased by 10.2% to reach a USD 28.2 bn. record, and in this January – August it grew 7.6% more to equal to USD 18.9 bn.
Russia is one of the major investors in the economy of Kazakhstan. The Russian investment accumulated in Kazakhstan equals to about USD 17 bn. Some 6,000 enterprises with Russian participation operate in the Republic.
The world’s longest land border (7,598 km) helps us interact successfully, enhancing interregional cooperation. For example, 76 of 89 subjects of the Russian Federation are developing effective cooperation with the akimates of Kazakhstan. General public and business community of the two countries actively promote these positive processes.
Our shared history, multi-century good-neighbourliness and cooperation, pride for the feat of ancestors who fought against Nazism contributing to the Victory, bring our peoples even closer together and foster the traditionally close mutually beneficial ties. We cherish this precious possession and try to multiply it for the sake of future generations of our citizens.
I would like to emphasize that the Kazakh youth is interested in learning Russian language and getting Russian education. We are grateful to our partners for their keen interest in cooperation in the areas of volunteering, culture and humanitarian activities.
Thus, our strategic partnership is forward-looking, extensive and multifaceted, time-tested and developing in an upward direction. We have something to offer and we know how to help each other. We will continue to work together, build up our economic and technological potential and improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens.
Question: One of the traditional areas of Kazakh-Russian cooperation is the energy sector. Not so long ago, an important project was launched to transport gas through the territory of Kazakhstan from Russia to Uzbekistan. What other projects are being implemented in this area?
Vladimir Putin: Nature and geography give Russia and Kazakhstan significant competitive advantages in the energy sector, which we strive to maximize for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
Leading Russian companies Gazprom, Rosneft, Lukoil and Tatneft, together with their partners from Kazakhstan, are developing fields and building joint ventures to process energy resources and plan to increase mutually beneficial cooperation.
Interaction in the gas industry opens up broad prospects. This is explained, among other things, by the infrastructure and routes of gas transmission and gas distribution systems in Russia and Central Asia established over many years and the high level of coordination both bilaterally and multilaterally.
Let me remind you that on 7 October, together with the Presidents of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, we participated in the ceremony of the launch of Russian natural gas supplies to Uzbekistan via Kazakhstan. This route will make it possible to make the most efficient use of existing gas transport networks and will contribute to the development not only of our three countries, but also of the entire Central Asian region. In the future, we believe it would be advisable to hold consultations with our colleagues from Turkmenistan. They traditionally participate in these markets. It would be in our common interests to involve them in such cooperation.
As for Kazakhstan, Russia is ready to assist in gasification of its northern and eastern regions in accordance with the Roadmap for cooperation in the gas sector signed by Gazprom and the Government of Kazakhstan on 18 January this year. Currently, various options are being worked out to debug the relevant gas transmission infrastructure.
Among the latest agreements, is a strategic cooperation agreement providing for gas exploration, production, processing and transportation signed on 1 November this year on the margins of the St. Petersburg International Gas Forum by Alexei Miller, Head of Gazprom, and Roman Sklyar, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
Our countries are constructively interacting in the oil sector. Using the logistic facilities of the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, we transport oil to the global markets in the most reliable and cost-effective way. Together with our OPEC+ partners we make a significant contribution to ensuring stability and predictability of the global oil market.
By working together we are developing the uranium and mining industries and successfully implementing nuclear fuel cycle and peaceful atom projects.
As you know, the leadership of the Republic of Kazakhstan is considering the construction of the nuclear power plant on its territory. If the decision to implement this project is made, Rosatom State Corporation is ready to develop a relevant project using the most advanced technologies in compliance with the highest environmental requirements and safety standards. This will boost energy supply of the economy of Kazakhstan and give a strong impetus to the social and economic development of the country.
We consider the development of cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan in green energy to be rather relevant. We have a lot in common in our approaches to the decarbonisation of the economy and energy transition. Our countries are planning to reach zero greenhouse gas emission by 2060. To do that we need to modernise energy and industrial infrastructures, make greater use of alternative and renewable energy sources and natural gas during the transition period. We need to make effective use of the absorption capacity of natural ecosystems.
We are also discussing other formats of joint work. On the whole, we expect that energy needs in Central Asia will only increase in the long run and other interested countries will be able to join our cooperation.
Question: Interregional and cross-border interaction is of great help for the cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia. Interregional cooperation forums were once launched to develop contacts. What topic will be discussed at XIX Forum? What statements and decisions are planned to be made?
Vladimir Putin: As I already noted, interregional and cross-border ties are of extremely great importance for Russia and Kazakhstan and are one of the pillars of the bilateral relations. Naturally, our countries were among the first in the world to introduce the practice of holding interregional cooperation forums with the participation of the heads of state.
Such meetings not only foster mutually beneficial relations between the business, cultural, and scientific communities of the two countries, but also serve to work out specific issues that largely determine the prospects of strengthening bilateral relations and giving them practical substance. Aware of the importance of such work, we participate in it together with Kassym-Jomart Tokayev.
The theme of the forthcoming 19th Forum is “Agriculture – the foundation of a robust economy”. Participants will concentrate on pertinent topics, such as food security, the implementation of digital technologies in the agro-industrial complex and the training of young professionals.
The meeting should result in the signing of a solid package of interregional agreements and, most importantly, commercial contracts. Mutually beneficial agreements between our entrepreneurs are a key benchmark of flourishing business cooperation. We strive to maximize the benefits of the complementarity and interdependence of our economies in order to increase the competitiveness of Russian and Kazakh products, including, in third markets.
Question: Astana hosted the inaugural Central Asia-Russia Summit last year. Russia maintains fairly close bilateral relations with all five countries in the region. What are the priorities for interaction within the framework of six-party cooperation?
Vladimir Putin: Integration trends in the Central Asian region are gaining momentum. This was confirmed by the outcomes of the regular Consultative Meeting of the Heads of Central Asian States held in Dushanbe on 14 September this year. In light of this, the demand for the Central Asia+Russia format is growing.
It is evident that our interaction, including in transport, logistics, energy and humanitarian affairs, has expanded beyond the framework of bilateral cooperation. It has the potential to further thrive through the collective endeavour of all parties involved.
In addition to high-level dialogue, we maintain links through security councils and other structures. For instance, the six-party contact mechanism for foreign ministers has been successfully developing since 2019. Recently, talks in this format took place in Samarkand on 14 April this year. There are plans to launch the work of the Central Asia+Russia expert groups on sectoral competences.
As for the priorities of our interaction with the “six-party cooperation”, they presently involve strengthening political dialogue, as well as cooperating in security, economy and trade, agriculture and food supply, energy, environment, healthcare, sanitary and epidemiological well-being, humanitarian relations, migration, information technologies and mass communications.
Question: Kazakhstan and Russia participate in many multilateral structures, including the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. Kazakhstan assumed the SCO Presidency, and President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev had introduced the Initiative on World Unity for Just Peace and Harmony at the SCO summit in July. In your opinion, what role do the SCO and other regional organizations play in maintaining peace and stability in the great Eurasian space?
Vladimir Putin: Development of a new and fairer world order based on the primacy of international law has been a prevailing trend at the current stage of world development. Russia believes that establishment of a common peaceful, stable and prosperous Eurasian space is an integral part of this process.
Obviously, it is impossible to address such challenges, which are monumental and global in scope, without consolidated efforts, strengthened mutual trust, and readiness to cooperate and to search for collective solutions. At the same time, respect for the sovereign right of every people to its own development pattern as well as compliance with the principles of the UN Charter in their entirety are necessary and essential preconditions.
We assume the establishment of a broader integration track – the Greater Eurasian Partnership – as an important step towards achieving this goal by combining the capabilities of all regional states and multilateral institutions, first of all building upon the Eurasian Economic Union and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
We have great expectations for the SCO, which brings together 26 states, since this structure has a strong consolidated political and economic capacity and covers a geographical area extending from South and Southeast Asia to the Middle East and Europe. The SCO attracts with its focus on creation and multifaceted cooperation, mutual consideration of interests, equality, openness, and respect for cultural and civilizational diversity. This compares favourably our organization with the “narrow-block” structures with the small number of chosen participants that are promoted by the Western countries. It is no coincidence that the constructive SCO role in ensuring peace and sustainable development has been reaffirmed in the thematic resolution of the UN General Assembly adopted on 28 August 2023.
Russia and Kazakhstan as well as a number of other partners founded the SCO in 2001. Fruitful cooperation within the SCO framework has established itself as one of the key pillars for strategic relations of friendship and alliance between our countries.
We support the priorities of 2023–2024 Kazakhstan Presidency in the SCO aimed at enhancing its authority and influence in the international arena. We will work towards achieving the goals agreed upon by the SCO leaders in order to further consolidate the organization.
We have to pay a particular attention to the implementation of high-level decisions aimed at improving the SCO performance in order to adapt it to present-day realities and enforce the impact of joint measures. I am sure that these goals will be achieved together by all partners.
We consider another quite representative regional format that is the Community of Independent States to be an integral part of the efforts aimed at supporting peace and stability in the entire Eurasian space. Russia will chair the CIS from 1 January 2014. Our main priorities include the deepening of economic cooperation, expansion of cultural and humanitarian ties, and contacts in the sphere of security and law enforcement, conjunction of Eurasian integration processes.
As for the economic stability, the Eurasian Economic Union, undoubtedly, has a crucial role to play in this area. It provides the conditions for sustainable development of the Member States’ economies, their overall modernization and enhancement of global competitiveness. In current difficult geopolitical conditions the Union focuses on ensuring technological sovereignty, creating an independent financial infrastructure, increasing the share of national currencies in mutual settlements.
Russia and Kazakhstan actively cooperate in the sphere of regional security within the CSTO. The events of January 2022, when the CSTO had significantly contributed to maintaining the internal political stability in Kazakhstan, have illustrated the efficiency of addressing the challenges faced by the Organization, in particular, ensuring its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Member States.
The next year will be marked by Kazakhstan presidency in the Organization. I am convinced that the initiatives of Kazakhstan partners will consolidate the CSTO potential and promote its empowerment in the interests of all Member States.
Question: Kazakhstan and Russia share not only a land boundary but also a maritime one – both our countries have access to the Caspian Sea. Today, the problem of pollution and swallowing of the Caspian Sea is very acute. With regard to water resources, the ecologists have been sounding the alarm about the state of the Ural River for some long time. What is being done to address these issues?
Vladimir Putin: Transboundary water cooperation issues traditionally occupy a significant place in the agenda of bilateral relations. The Ural River flowing through the territory of Russia and Kazakhstan has important economic, environmental, and even cultural significance for our countries. To preserve the ecosystem of its basin, joint Russian-Kazakh programmes are being implemented, including a wide range of scientific activities to restore the biosphere, identify sources of pollution, and purify water. A substantive dialogue is conducted through federal and environmental agencies, the Russian-Kazakh Commission on Environment, the Commission on the Joint Use and Protection of Transboundary Waters, and the Commission for the Preservation of the Ural River Ecosystem.
The same applies to solving the environmental problems of the Caspian Sea, including the shallowing of the water body. We attach great importance to the preservation of populations of rare animal species, in particular the Caspian seal and fish, especially sturgeons.
In general, Russia and Kazakhstan prioritize environmental protection, including within the framework of the Caspian Five. To preserve the ecosystem and biodiversity of the Caspian Sea, we are implementing projects to protect mammals and birds, clean the seawater of plastic pollution, breed and raise sturgeons, etc. The Caspian Sea is our common heritage, and we should act here only together, on the basis of partnership and cooperation. There is just no other way to do it.
Meanwhile, of course, we do not forget about the economic and logistical potential of our water bodies, and we plan to develop cooperation here, in particular, in the field of shipbuilding and maritime transport.
Question: There is a close cultural and humanitarian exchange between Kazakhstan and Russia, and no high-level talks go without mentioning this component of cooperation. What new initiatives are planned in this area?
Vladimir Putin: God-neighbourliness and mutual trust are a solid basis for historical affinity of the peoples of Russia and Kazakhstan. And it is logical that we are brought together by bright and fruitful humanitarian initiatives.
Each year, major cultural events are organized in Russia and Kazakhstan, covering a variety of areas. The special status of relations between the States is underlined by the international Russian Seasons project organized in the Republic of Kazakhstan in 2023, the ceremonial opening of which took place on 2 March on the stage of Astana Opera, capital’s theatre.
The Cross Days of Russia in Kazakhstan and the Cross Days of Kazakhstan in Russia are regularly organized. The events organized as part of these activities are always an important event in the cultural life of our countries.
Scientific and academic contracts are expanding. In 2022 more than 60 thousand students from Kazakhstan have studied in Russian institutes of higher education. In 2023/2024 academic year we have increased the number of places for studying with governmental quota by 200. The leader of Russian higher education in Kazakhstan is the branch of Lomonosov Moscow State University. Its graduates, young people, who get a diploma of Russian standard in any sphere – from physics and mathematics to arts – are in demand and, as a rule, don’t have problems in finding a good job. We are planning to increase this cooperation.
Branches of other Russian higher education institutes are functioning successfully in Kazakhstan. Taking into account the growing need of studying Russian language in the Republic of Kazakhstan, we are planning to expand common educational infrastructure. For instance, we are ready to apply and develop in the Republic of Kazakhstan the experience in building schools and developing other types of educational activities, increasing the quality of education in Russian language in Kazakhstan, this will become an emblematic project, demonstrating a dynamic development of bilateral cooperation of our States.
As Abai Kunanbayev, a Kazakh national thinker and educator, who translated the classics of Russian literature into Kazakh language, put it: “To avoid vices and achieve goodness one have to know Russian language and Russian culture”. He called it a “key to life”.
Without any doubt Russian language – is our common heritage and competitive advantage, but most importantly it’s a significant factor strengthening Russian-Kazakh friendship. I appreciate the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan, Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, to create an International Organization for the Russian language. It is symbolic that it is in 2023, declared the Year of the Russian language in the CIS, that the CIS Council of Heads of State adopted a decision on 13 October to sign a Memorandum of Association and a Statute of this organization. I’m convinced that this will serve as a powerful factor of further rapprochement of our peoples.
Question: It is believed that a lot in the relationship between countries depends on the relationship between their leaders. How do you assess the level of your personal relations with Kassym-Jomart Tokaeyev?
Vladimir Putin: I have noted more than once that he and I have developed a truly friendly, close relationship. It’s not surprising. We are people of the same generation and feel equally responsible for our countries. We do our best to provide a favourable environment for their confident development and prosperity, to improve the quality of life of our citizens.
We regularly call each other through phone and meet in different formats – we “check our watches” both on the bilateral agenda and on issues of multilateral cooperation. Such personal contacts fully reflect the high level of Russian-Kazakh relations.
Most importantly – our peoples have always been and remain good neighbours and faithful friends. I’m convinced that by strengthening the invaluable traditions of trust, mutual understanding and multifaceted successful cooperation, we will successfully implement an advanced model of interstate communication that can be set as an example to others. Therefore, whatever the situation in the world, I look forward to the future of our allied relations and integration partnership with confidence.
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 8, 2023, 00:00
Text versionEvents
Video address to participants of the 11th meeting of security council secretaries of the CIS member states
November 8, 2023
09:30
Video address to participants of the 11th meeting of security council secretaries of the CIS member states.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
I am pleased to welcome such a representative meeting of the security council secretaries of the CIS members states. Your regular meetings are important for strengthening and developing the CIS collective security system, ensuring the sovereignty and national interests of all CIS states and for their confident, steady socioeconomic development.
The agenda of the 11th regular meeting is full of substantive issues. You will discuss the situation in the region and the world in general, share experience and practical developments that promote the protection of our citizens against internal and external threats, and map out our joint steps for the future.
We are seeing that the international situation remains very complicated and tense. Old conflicts have reignited and new hotbeds of conflict have appeared in a number of regions, especially in the Middle East where civilians are the hardest hit by the latest round of the Palestine-Israel confrontation that has been provoked.
This global instability affects Eurasia as well. Moreover, actions of certain states are aimed at undermining the legitimate authorities, public stability and traditional values in the CIS countries and upending our traditionally close trade, cooperation and cultural ties.
We are facing persistent threats common to all of us, such as terrorism and organised crime, drug trafficking and illegal migration, radicalism and extremism, as well as economic, information, technological and biological security risks.
All this requires not only a coordinated collective response but also large-scale preventive efforts. It is vital, among other things, to make utmost use of the forecast, information and analytical capabilities of the security councils for an in-depth, comprehensive examination of the situation in the CIS and the world in general, in order to clearly lay out the priorities and timely adjust the relevant strategic planning documents.
I am confident that your cooperation will continue promoting stability and security of the CIS states and facilitating the development of coordinated approaches to reaching our common goals.
I wish you success.
Topics
CIS
Foreign policy
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 8, 2023, 09:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a videoconference meeting with Government members.
November 8, 2023
20:30
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting with Government members (via videoconference).
Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
briefed the meeting participants about the mechanisms of protection for citizens with high debt levels, in particular about the new rules for out-of-court bankruptcy procedure, which became effective on November 3. Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
also commented on the subject.
The speeches by Minister of Sport Oleg Matytsin
and Head of the Russian Popular Front Executive Committee Mikhail Kuznetsov
were devoted to the system of tax deduction for physical training and sports.
The Minister of Culture Olga Lyubimova
spoke about the restoration of cultural heritage sites, while the Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Alexander Kozlov
talked about the progress in construction of the Vostok station and the work of the Antarctic expedition.
Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
and Healthcare Minister Mikhail Murashko
delivered reports on the main topic of the discussion, measures to fight cancer.
The meeting was also attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Dmitry Grigorenko
, Deputy Prime Minister – Plenipotentiary Presidential Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
, deputy prime ministers Viktoria Abramchenko
, Tatyana Golikova
, Alexander Novak
, Alexei Overchuk
, Marat Khusnullin
and Dmitry Chernyshenko
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
and Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
. In addition, the heads of several ministries and departments were invited to the meeting.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with Government members
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, colleagues.
Mr Murashko is our key speaker today. He will brief us on measures to combat oncological diseases.
Incidentally, I visited the Dima Rogachev Centre today – probably you noticed this. I discussed this with Mr Mishustin this morning.
I would like to thank the Healthcare Ministry for its serious attitude towards the work of this institution. Specialists have a number of questions, but we will discuss them later. They are asking for support and assistance on some specific problems. We will discuss this separately with the Minister afterwards.
But before getting to the main item, let’s discuss some current issues. I would like to ask Mr Reshetnikov to start with the protection of people with a high debt burden. There are some changes in this issue and people should know about them. Of course, everyone should understand that all these actions are aimed at protecting the interests of our citizens.
I would like to ask Mr Reshetnikov to speak about this problem in more detail.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Ms Lyubimova, we have 154,000 federal and regional cultural heritage sites, and 16 percent of them are in poor condition. This process has clearly dragged on, especially their transfer to economic use. I know that you have some proposals. And in general, how is this work going?
Minister of Culture Olga Lyubimova: Mr President,
Indeed, almost 154,000 cultural heritage sites are currently included in the register, and work has been organised with the new regions to update the unified register. It is scheduled for completion by the end of 2025.
Every year, the Ministry of Culture works to preserve more than 300 cultural heritage sites. We pay special attention to historical communities – there are 46 such towns and villages at the federal level and 112 at the regional level. We apply the ‘conservation for development’ principle to those communities. For this purpose, we designate facilities for protection and work out development concepts for each historical community for decades ahead.
Such concepts have been approved for Plyos, Arzamas, Borovsk, Tutayev, Gorokhovets, Yeniseysk, Krapivna, Kyakhta in the Republic of Buryatia, and Suzdal. And we have plans for Vyborg, Zaraysk, Belyov, Vologda, Yaroslavl, Tomsk and Kargopol.
We are working on this in close cooperation with the respective regions, and this has had a positive effect, prompting the development of local businesses, restaurants, cafes and hotels, as well as an increase in the tourist flow. For example, tourist flows to Arzamas, Krapivna and Gorokhovets have doubled over the past year, and the tiny Tutayev now welcomes more than 250,000 visitors a year.
The Ministry of Culture is doing a lot of work to preserve cultural and natural landscapes associated with historical events or the lives of eminent people, and to designate places of interest. Some of the best examples include Polenovo, Yasnaya Polyana in the Tula Region, the Solovetsky archipelago in the Arkhangelsk Region, and the ancient city of Tauric Chersonesos in Sevastopol. Currently, more than 2,000 places of interest have been added to the register.
I would like to specifically note the results of work to reduce administrative barriers to renovation activities.
All public services related to the preservation of cultural heritage sites are now available digitally. The shift was achieved through the joint efforts of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Development and our colleagues from the Ministry of Digital Development. As a result, the time limits for most services have been halved, and the number of documents to be submitted has been reduced by two thirds.
Thanks to you, Mr President, a very important problem affecting people living in listed apartment buildings has also been solved. On September 1, a law came into force allowing for capital repair works to be carried out in such buildings. Given that there are 8,000 residential buildings in the country that are recognised as cultural heritage sites, this is a very welcome measure of support for their residents, and according to our preliminary estimates, it will save more than 200 billion rubles.
Mr President, in pursuance of your instruction, the Ministry, together with the DOM.RF joint-stock company, is also working on the possibility of turning heritage sites with low investment attractiveness into economic objects. The first five regions to participate in the pilot project have already been identified: the Trans-Baikal Territory and the Novgorod, Ryazan, Smolensk and Tver regions.
The Ministry of Culture has also been implementing two more new programmes since 2020. The first is the Conservation of Cultural Heritage Sites programme, which makes it possible to prevent further damage to monuments and to ensure the possibility of their restoration in the future. This programme covers 50 sites annually. And there is a programme for the preservation of wooden architecture monuments, which ensures the restoration of five sites per year.
Thank you for your attention.
Vladimir Putin: Ok. We need to work more actively here, of course. The preferential interest, how much is the rate for a restoration project? Four percent?
Olga Lyubimova: We are working on four percent, yes, with the possibility of compensating banks, respectively.
Vladimir Putin: We need to see how this goes in the regions. Because in Moscow, it is clear that these investments pay for themselves quite quickly. We need to see how it will go in the regions.
And as we go along, as we implement this plan and this project, I ask you to report back in six months or so on what is happening there, so that, if necessary, we can make some adjustments, and by the end of the year, the pace should be noticeable and positive.
Thank you.
Mr Kozlov has sent us two good pictures. I think the Government members have them. They show our Vostok station in Antarctica. The 69th Russian expedition is about to get underway. These two photos show what took place from January 2003 to November 2023.
Mr Kozlov, please tell us what happened.
Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Alexander Kozlov: Thank you.
Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues,
The 69th seasonal Russian expedition has begun in Antarctica. More than 650 people – scientists, technical staff and builders of the new winter complex for the Vostok station – will take part in it.
Russia operates ten research stations in Antarctica. Five of them are year-round and five are seasonal. Vostok is the only station located in the central part of the continent, and the construction of the winter complex is among the world’s most challenging engineering projects, considering logistics, low temperatures and climate. Right now, it is 60 degrees below zero there.
The new winter complex is a modular structure with a total area of over 3,000 square metres, almost like a five-story building. The modules were manufactured in Gatchina in 2020. In 2021, the disassembled structure was loaded onto ships and sent to Antarctica where it was transported deeper into the continent on sledges, almost 1,500 kilometres away from the coast. The route included elevation changes of up to 4,000 metres above sea level, comparable to Mount Elbrus, which is why the builders undergo high-altitude training before going to the continent.
What has been accomplished in the two construction seasons, which in Antarctica last only four months, from November to February?
During the first season, 36 supports were installed to form the foundation. Specially made jacks were embedded in the supports to level and adjust the station's height depending on the snow level. A garage module was assembled, which, in addition to unloading dock and equipment storage and servicing, has a snow melter to provide station residents with water, which is important.
During the second construction season, which ended in February, two more modules were assembled: an engineering module with an energy supply system, and a residential unit which offers 15 comfortable rooms, a dining area, and a recreation space.
Up to 35 researchers can live and work at the station during the season, and up to 15 polar explorers can stay for the winter. All modules have an external insulation system one metre thick, so you could say they are wrapped in a layer of special insulation like in a sleeping bag.
By the way, specifically for the second construction season, we have implemented another complex infrastructure project. We upgraded the runway to receive cargo planes like the Il-76 in order to quickly deliver builders and equipment to the Progress station. The flight from St Petersburg now takes 72 hours via Cape Town compared to 45 days by sea. By the way, the runway can be used as a platform for international air transport. China, India, and Australia’s stations are located nearby.
The third construction season at the Vostok station started in November with 176 builders already in Antarctica. They will finish the construction of the two remaining modules. These are not the main facilities but will be used for storing fuel reserves and equipment backups and parts. The construction of the complex is almost finished, and the scientific and technical staff can stay and work there permanently. We plan that this year, six people from the Institute of Arctic and Antarctic and 30 technicians will stay there in order to launch Vostok into pilot operation to test all systems in operating mode.
At the end of January, we will be there together with the director of our Antarctic and Arctic Institute and the head of Novatek, which co-financed the project. We are ready to set up a teleconference. The polar explorers and builders working there would appreciate it if you, Mr President, personally gave the command to start. Please support this request.
The full operation of all five winter complex modules will begin in early 2025. I want to emphasise that, despite the construction, our polar explorers did not suspend their research in this area.
For example, last year, thanks to the work conducted by the Mining University since the 1970s, the researchers raised an ice core that is approximately 1.2 million years old from a depth of more than 3.5 kilometres. Glaciologists, chemists, and climatologists from the Institute of Arctic and Antarctic and the Limnological Institute of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences are studying it. Without a doubt, the subglacial lake is the main focus of research at Vostok. Taking samples from it in 2012 was a world-class achievement. Now, the goal is to get to the lake itself. Studying this untouched water body will help answer questions about how Earth's climate formed millions of years ago.
The project to study this subglacial lake will last for several years, and this winter complex is being built to provide the scientists with workable living conditions so they can live and work comfortably onsite.
Thank you very much. That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Kozlov, if this core is 1.2 million years old, it means this ice has been there for the past 1.2 million years, correct? Or?
Alexander Kozlov: Yes, absolutely correct. Most importantly, these results will help us materially and technically substantiate changes in the climate agenda, which is being widely discussed at the international level. We really need this.
Vladimir Putin: Could it be that this water didn’t freeze 1.2 million years ago, but sometime more recently? Is that possible?
Alexander Kozlov: Mr President, this is atmospheric ice. Science says that the ice is as old as I indicated before.
Vladimir Putin: Well, okay.
For Novatek, it is a charity project, correct?
Alexander Kozlov: Yes, they co-financed the project with almost 3.5 billion rubles. They are working with us as part of the team. They brought in the contractors, and their experience and expertise help us complete these large projects on schedule.
Vladimir Putin: Thank Mr Leonid Mikhelson and the Novatek team for their support.
Let's move on to the main item, measures to combat cancer.
Please, Mr Murashko, the floor is yours.
<…>
Topics
Banks
Culture
Economy and finance
Healthcare
4 more
Persons
Chekunkov Alexei
Golikova Tatyana
Kozlov Alexander
Kuznetsov Mikhail
6 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 8, 2023, 20:30
Text version