Events
Meeting of the Russia – Land of Opportunity Supervisory Board
Vladimir Putin held a meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Russia – Land of Opportunity autonomous non-profit organisation in the Kremlin’s St Catherine Hall to review its performance over the past five years and map out its development plans.
July 19, 2023
16:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 14
During the meeting of the Russia – Land of Opportunity autonomous non-profit organisation’s Supervisory Board. Photo: Valery Sharifulin, TASS
The Presidential Executive Order establishing the Russia – Land of Opportunity autonomous non-profit organisation was signed on May 22, 2018. Its main goal is to create conditions for upward mobility and help people of all ages achieve personal and professional growth.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of meeting of the Russia – Land of Opportunity Supervisory Board
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
Today we are holding the fourth meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Russia – Land of Opportunity organisation.
I am delighted to see and welcome Supervisory Board members and participants of this project, all those who are interested in and are helping promote it, which is very important.
I would like to tell you about your achievements. There are certain results. First of all, the organisation has been operating for five years. That is good in itself; it is working and developing. We also have an opportunity to discuss what it has achieved – I will say a few words about this – and to map out our plans for the future.
What results can we report? There are 26 programmes. This does not mean much; there could be 36 or even 106 programmes. The important thing is that over 20 million people took part in these programmes. It is an impressive figure. And no less impressive is the fact that our friends and colleagues from over 150 countries were involved in these programmes despite the current problems and the circumstances we are living in. It is a strong result indeed.
It means that it is important for proactive people who are looking for their place in the world and striving for results, and that they feel that all our measures are aimed at supporting people, at helping them attain the goals they have set for themselves and possibly at helping them formulate these goals.
As for opinion surveys, in 2017 only 37 percent of young people thought that conditions in Russia were good for self-realisation. The current figure is over 80 percent. It means that the efforts the government is taking, including your efforts, are having the desired effect. And over 90 percent of the projects’ participants think so.
There is high demand for the Russia – Land of Opportunity project itself. The logic of all actions under this project is putting the focus on people, on individuals with their ambitions in the best sense of the word, and their striving for personal improvement and for contributing to the efforts of the state and society in key development areas.
As I have said, our projects are aimed at helping people find self-fulfilment. In this context, I would like to mention the informal part of our lives, namely the fact that 2023 has been declared the Year of Teachers and Mentors. I would like to note that the project participants meet with people who have achieved practical results in their lives, results that have been recognised in society. These people gave lectures and acted as mentors in the broadest sense of the word. It is equally important that the project participants also act as teachers and mentors to younger people who are taking their first steps in their careers and on the way to their goals. All this is very important.
Of course, it is important to promote demand for these projects and to increase their appeal. I hope that this is how it will be, and the results already speak for themselves. At the very least, we have been successful so far. Take the expedition the Russia – Land of Opportunity organisation held around the Sea of Azov. I believe that it was also important for the people you have met and worked with during that trip, which was not a pleasure cruise but business. I would like to thank all those who took part in that project last year.
Of course, I also hope that the situation will continue to develop in the same vein, and that you will continue to work energetically and effectively.
Mr Komissarov will now tell us about this. Please.
General Director of the Russia – Land of Opportunity non-profit organisation, Rector of the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA) Alexei Komissarov
: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Back in 2018, when you made a decision to create the Russia – Land of Opportunity organisation, one of the key issues we faced was how are we going to access our performance. It was decided to rely on the opinion of our citizens as the main indicator. You have already mentioned opinion poll results. Indeed, we consider this the most important indicator.
Every year, our Supervisory Board meets to discuss the results we have achieved: we started from 37 percent, as you have said, then moved to 50, 62, and 76 percent last year. VCIOM recently conducted another opinion poll, and 81 percent of Russian citizens noted that they were confident that the younger generation had an opportunity for self-fulfilment, an opportunity to use their abilities and to achieve success in life.
The second indicator is the scale, the coverage. I will not repeat the statistics that you have already mentioned in your opening remarks. However, I would like to say that tens of thousands of our project winners have really changed their lives through their involvement in the Russia – Land of Opportunity platform. Some of them were able to undergo on-the-job training at the best companies. Others were invited to work as public servants, and many people worked together with their personal mentors. I would like to sincerely thank all the mentors of our platform who worked with the winners. One has become the mayor of a large city.
You have recently met with graduates of the RANEPA programme for training management personnel pool, the so-called School of Governors. Many of them joined the programme after working with the Leaders of Russia project.
I guess those involved in our projects, their readiness to help other people become mentors for younger participants and make people around them stronger and our country stronger and better are the third indicator.
By the way, many initiatives that are currently yielding results have been proposed by participants in our projects and put forward at previous Supervisory Board meetings, and we made the corresponding decisions. For example, the revived Znaniye (Knowledge) Society, the More than a Journey tourism project, the Movement of the First and others.
It has already become a good tradition of ours for the participants to present various projects. I believe that we will not deviate from this tradition, and we will give the floor to them.
<…>
Alexei Komissarov: Today we have Ilya Shtokman here, one of the season two winners. After the competition, Ilya’s life changed incredibly: he became first deputy mayor of Nizhny Novgorod. But he continued to change his life and his destiny. I think it would be better if Ilya told us about it himself.
Vladimir Putin: Please, Ilya.
Ilya Shtokman: Good afternoon.
Starting out, my story was typical, like everyone else: school, wrestling practice, university; I graduated from the Faculty of Computational Mathematics and Cybernetics, went to work. Then 1998 happened: a crisis. My wife and I decided to leave the country, and so we left. Abroad, I went from a loader at a bakery to project manager in a large IT company.
Vladimir Putin: Where were you a loader?
Ilya Shtokman: At a bakery.
Vladimir Putin: A bakery is not so bad; it is not the worst place.
When I was a student, I worked part-time: we loaded bags at a railway station. But I did not really like it, to be honest.
Ilya Shtokman: No, we took trays out of the oven.
The company used the best of what was available in project management at that moment, plus in management in general. So, I was lucky to be able to absorb and understand all of this myself.
In 2004 I decided to return and build a family business with my father. So, I went from IT into production, where I worked in one form or another for 15 years. I was often asked why I returned. I always said that I wanted to live in a country where I want to live, and everything that I have done and am doing, I do for this purpose.
Gradually, I have built my business and perfected all the processes, but I thought it was still too early to retire at 40. So, a new story began, the story of the Leaders of Russia, a competition where you can compete with other managers and which has really changed all my life.
I did not make it to the finals in season one. I thought that perhaps there were people who were better than me, and so I took the first step: I began studying. After that, I won season two, and got down to studying again. Then, a man who also won the Leaders of Russia competition was appointed mayor of Nizhny Novgorod; we met there, and he suggested that I come work in the administration. He did not just offer but challenged me. He said: you often say that this or that must be done, or why they cannot see this, so go on and do it.
I accepted this challenge and ended up in the Nizhny Novgorod city administration as the first deputy mayor. My sphere [of responsibility] included IT, the economy, tourism, entrepreneurship and large projects. We have accomplished a lot over these two years. Other winners of the competition joined our team: there are five of us now.
We began to change the philosophy and set people up for success and abandon the words “that is how it has been done historically.” We held the celebrations to mark Nizhny Novgorod’s 800th anniversary and launched the digital transformation of the city with data-based management; we brought the entire “zoo” of different information systems together on a single municipal government platform.
There were a lot of ideas and plans, but then mobilisation was announced. It was Saturday, I was sitting on a bench at my dacha, and I looked around me, I looked at my son who was busy with something, perhaps with something very important, and I realised that everything that is happening here is very important, of course, but the future of our country is being decided right now there, in the south.
The country has been doing something for us for a very long time, and then for once it asked that something be done for it. On Monday I cancelled my reservation, on Tuesday I joined the army, and for nine months now we have been in the Lugansk People's Republic.
I should probably just wish you strength and health to continue what you are doing, because then we will all live in a country in which we want to live.
That’s it. That is my story.
Vladimir Putin: Ilya, this is an amazing story that you have just told. You know, some part of the country’s history is reflected in it, as perhaps in each of us. This is a country searching for its place in life, and the same goes for you. And in the end, you have really found the most important thing in this search: dedication to this country. And in the end, this is a struggle for the future of our children, and of your child, which you have just mentioned. How old is he, by the way?
Ilya Shtokman: The youngest is nine.
Vladimir Putin: And the elder?
Ilya Shtokman: The eldest daughter is 23.
Vladimir Putin: You, having two children, have made the decision to go to the frontline while having such career prospects as deputy mayor in one of the largest cities in Russia. Incredible.
I want to thank you for this, wish you all the best and success to your comrades-in-arms. I know how difficult it is for them in certain areas, and it is not easy in general: this is the hardest work, day and night, under constant threat to life and health. It is not easy.
So, first I wish you success. And second, I hope that, having received this life experience, you will return to civilian life after completing your tasks where you are now and where you are really needed, and carry on with your career in life in the broadest sense of the word.
First Deputy Chief of Staff [of the Presidential Executive Office] Sergei Kiriyenko is here. He often goes to the special military operation zone. I ask him, specifically as Deputy Chief of Staff, to pay attention to such people, bearing in mind the prospects for their career advancement in the interests of the country, and not only in the Armed Forces, but also in civilian life. Good luck.
Ilya Shtokman: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: By the way, as far as I know, Shtokmanovskoye is the largest gas field in the north of the country…
Ilya Shtokman: Unfortunately, I have nothing to do with it.
Vladimir Putin: No, it is not named after you, but I believe there will be streets, cities, parks and schools named after your fellow soldiers.
<…>
Alexei Komissarov: They said you have many people whose lives have changed because of this platform, but some people started changing things earlier. 
I would like to give the floor to an unusual participant – Christelle Neant. Christelle is her given name, and Neant is her family name. Christelle is from France but she came to the DPR in 2016. Recently, she took part in our New Media Workshop project that is being run by Senezh Workshop Management.
I think it would be better if Christelle tells her story herself. She has an interesting destiny and an interesting story.
Christelle Neant: Good afternoon, everyone! Good afternoon, Mr President!
As was said, seven years ago I decided to come to Donbass to work as a war correspondent. I wanted to convey the truth. I wanted the voice of the Donbass people to reach the French-speaking audience. At first, I worked at DONi (Donetsk International News Agency) in Donetsk. Unfortunately, it closed in 2018, and I decided that I needed a platform to publish my articles and videos. 
I created my own website “Donbass Insider.” When I worked for DONi, we had a full team, but now I am almost alone. I saw that I could not do everything myself, that this was not efficient. I am not alone in this situation. Almost all Western media that are telling the truth despite the risks and threats are independent journalists that work by themselves. I saw that this wasn’t efficient. We all worked to build a good reputation, and the fact is that are telling the truth, always. We have developed very strong relations with our audience. They know that if they read our articles or watch our video reports, they are reading the truth. They do not expect any propaganda. 
Sometimes we worked together on small projects, but that was some time ago. I thought we should unite all Western journalists in one team to be more effective.
Last year I was in the New Media Workshop. I learned how to create a project, how to build an efficient team and how to prepare a presentation. Our colleagues from Russia – Land of Opportunity, enthusiastically supported my project and helped me prepare all these presentations.
If you support this project, we will continue working together with our colleagues from the New Media Workshop and from the Russia – Land of Opportunity project to unite all journalists in one team. We want these people who are now like separate fingers to become a fist that will be more effective in fighting Western propaganda. All these journalists come from the West, and we know how Western propaganda works and how to counter it in the best way.
Thank you for your attention.
Vladimir Putin: Christelle, you know, people like you exist, but they are rare. There are more than eight billion people on the planet, and it is still rare to meet people like you…
Christelle Neant: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: …who are able to uproot themselves from their usual comfortable surroundings and work, live and affirm with their lives the correctness of their convictions, following their beliefs and subjecting themselves to danger. It is a rare thing.
Of course, I wish you success. We will do everything we can to support your project. You have said: “we are telling the truth, always.” This is probably the sharpest weapon against lies and propaganda soaked in these lies.
Christelle Neant: This is why they are so afraid of us and constantly try to discredit us.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I believe this is true. This is why they essentially shut down everywhere our only information resource targeting Western audience: Russia Today. They shut it down everywhere or put up obstacles; they are afraid of the truth, including coming from those of your colleagues from Western countries who work for Russia Today.
By the way, I will ask your colleagues from the media community to help you expand your opportunities, including Russia Today and Sputnik. I think Russia Today works in six languages, including French. Sputnik, I think, has more than 30 languages. This is the scale.
And of course, we will be pleased to support your project.
Christelle Neant: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
I just want to wish you success, because, first of all, we have many friends in European countries, including France. I know this personally.
I know people are thinking with us. They simply try not to give them the opportunity to think – others think for them and impose their stereotypes on them.
Christelle Neant: Yes. Recently, I carried out an analysis of propaganda in France with a colleague of mine, Laurent Briar, whom I want to invite to the team, and we were shocked. We analysed articles, several newspapers, the media in France; and it really is a huge propaganda machine, where they constantly repeat the same words, schemes, ideas. This is like what was coming from Goebbels.
Vladimir Putin: You know that hostilities in Donbas did not start in February 2022, but much earlier, in 2014–2015. What year did you come there?
Christelle Neant: At the beginning of 2016.
Vladimir Putin: You have already seen that the fighting was going on, that the war had already begun.
Christelle Neant: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: People in European countries and in the United States who understand this do not want developments to move in that direction. But I believe the ruling elites have usurped and abused their position and their monopoly on power. And people like you, in my opinion, are performing a very important task, and not only in the interests of Donbass, but in the interests of their country, because they are trying to show that the policy pursued by these countries’ ruling elites is wrong and harms their own people.
Thank you very much. We will try our best to support you.
Christelle Neant: Thank you.
Alexei Komissarov: To continue the discussion of our new regions and project participants that are mobile and ready for new challenges, I would like to give the floor to Ivan Safronov.
Ivan moved from the Tambov Region to the Kherson Region and is now doing important work there. Let him speak for himself.
Ivan, go ahead please.
Ivan Safronov: Good afternoon, Mr President! Good afternoon, colleagues!
I really come from the most eco-friendly region of the country – the Tambov Region. I started my career as a university lecturer and defended a thesis in the field of IT. Later I was invited to the supreme executive government body – the Tambov regional administration – where I worked on government support mechanisms and ways of improving the investment climate.
Everyone knows business support centres like My Business Centre. In 2017–2018, my team developed a business space project called Geometry of Business. It has become a prototype for such projects all over the country.
In addition, at the Governor’s proposal I headed the Tambov Regional Department for the Development of Trade and Industry. As you said, I probably really thought that I had achieved something. However, the Leaders of Russia competition changed my way of thinking. On the one hand, I tested what I was capable of and, on the other, I realised that I had outgrown myself. For me, accepting a position in the new regions in a difficult operational environment is truly an opportunity to use all the skills I have acquired.
My family and friends supported me and, besides I also wanted to be an example for my children – I already have three.
I underwent federal training at the Russian Federation Ministry of Industry and Trade, received approval from the region’s administration and took up the position of Minister of Industry and Trade of the Kherson Region.
I have been in the Kherson Region for over three months. Our main goal, of course, is to re-launch businesses that were idle, attract investors and provide state support to industrial plants that had never received it before.
In addition to this, we are actively developing trade infrastructure. This year, we implemented the Social Bread project, which contemplates adding to the producers’ assortment list of bread with a price tag of no more than 18 rubles.
We are actively working with the Leaders of Russia platform and would like to offer them the opportunity to open an office in our Kherson Region. This would allow us to create inter-sectoral teams that would speed up and simplify the integration of the new regions. Their residents would feel that they live in a big, united and great country.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: I think this is what we should do. I will be only too happy to support it. It is a good idea.
Where would I like to focus? Where was my attention drawn and, I hope, that of the people here as well? You said you made this decision in a difficult operational environment. You are a completely civilian person but you are talking in absolutely military terms. Rather than reflecting some militarisation of thinking, I think it shows an understanding of the acute situation in which we are now, in which we live and work. I think that feeling this edge will certainly help enhance the efficiency and quality of your work. For our part, we will definitely support this.
<…>
Alexei Komissarov: Information and communications technology is one of the most important industries in the world and in Russia today. I hear you will meet with the Russian Government later today where you plan to talk about artificial intelligence among other things.
Our platform has a project called Digital Breakthrough. Season: Artificial Intelligence, where participants address real and sometimes very difficult tasks using artificial intelligence. The tasks are chosen for them by government agencies and businesses, including both large and small companies.
We have one of the winners here among us: Yegor Sechinsky. By the way, Yegor, despite his young age, has won several projects in the Russia – Land of Opportunity competitions, and started his own company at the age of 18, if I am not mistaken. So, we have wonderful participants. But I think it would be better to give the floor to Yegor.
Yegor Sechinsky: Good afternoon, colleagues.
My name is Yegor Sechinsky, I am 21 years old, and I am the founder of the Ninsar IT company.
We have been helping Russian businesses implement digital technologies for three years already, and now, by the way, we have begun developing our own project: the game Saturn, about engineers and scientists in a Russia of the future.
In fact, I began my career back at school, when I took part in the National Technological Olympiad on the development of a computer virtual reality. It was there, in the finals, when I realised that I could create something with my own hands and that I had everything I needed for this: skills, opportunities, and conditions.
Then I learned about the Russia – Land of Opportunity platform and began to participate in their events. There, I met so many talented and cool young people who became my friends; it was unimaginable. There were also adults who supported me, who said that what I was doing was very important and right. But my main breakthrough, oddly enough, happened at Digital Breakthrough. There I was able to assemble a team; we solved the task set by business and won, and after that, we entered the open market and began resolving other companies’ tasks.
Now, our company employs more than 30 people. We have implemented over 50 projects over this time. We now have three digital services based on artificial intelligence. Three years ago, I would not have believed that I would be running such a company. But in Russia it is possible, and young people are given a way, and this is true.
By the way, artificial intelligence really helps us now and is not taking away tasks and work from our specialists. Using it, our team can find more time for some cool tasks, not routine work, and artificial intelligence helps them stay inspired.
Cyber-Physical Platform – a gaming platform aimed at teaching children programming. I would say, all this talk about artificial intelligence replacing us in the long run is just science fiction stories. We need to support artificial intelligence.
I know that Mr German Gref is holding a conference on artificial intelligence, AI Journey, at Sberbank, and the Russia – Land of Opportunity platform has a Digital Breakthrough. Season: Artificial Intelligence section. I think it would be interesting to try to combine these two events and hold an international track together. This would help bring together the theorists from AI Journey and the practitioners from Digital Breakthrough.
This is my small suggestion.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Gref, will artificial intelligence replace you as CEO of Sberbank?
President and Chairman of the Board of Sberbank German Gref: Mr President, I hope not in my lifetime, but at this rate, that’s what’s coming.
Vladimir Putin (addressing Yegor Sechinsky):You see, with people like this, any progress is going to slow down now.
German Gref: It is an interesting idea. We will consider it. In fact, it is indeed important to join forces. I think we can do more together. Thank you very much for the idea.
Vladimir Putin: Indeed, Sberbank has been doing a lot in this respect for a long time, for many years, right? How many? For at least five years, probably.
German Gref: We have been holding AI Journey conferences for five years. In general, we have been investing a lot in this for about 12–13 years.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, you have invested a lot. Can you give me the figure,please?
German Gref: Every year, we invest the equivalent of about a billion dollars in artificial intelligence technologies. We get back about 3 billion dollars a year.
Vladimir Putin: That is on a grand scale, so every effort aimed at achieving specific goals in this area must definitely be supported. I am sure that Mr Gref will support it as well.
Yegor Sechinsky: Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: This is our future. We are well aware of this: this is the future, absolutely. In terms of importance for the country – for any country – this is no less significant than the Soviet nuclear or missile projects in the mid-1940s and 1950s.
So, Mr Gref, please pay attention to this, all right?
<…>
Alexander Lyubimov: Mr President.
My name is Alexander Lyubimov; I am from St Petersburg. I am a super finalist at the Leaders of Russia fourth season competition.
I am here today because of three major events in my life. The first event took place in May 2014. My friends and I set up a volunteer organisation under the title “Coordination Centre for Assistance to Novorossiya.” We started helping those who were fighting, who were defending Donbass and have continued doing this since then.
The second event happened in 2021, when I was admitted to the competition, and this was my third attempt to take part in it before I achieved success. Thanks to the competition, I got to know many very smart, energetic and patriotic people.
The third event occurred with the beginning of the special military operation. We were supposed to sharply build up our activities and we did. This was possible largely because I could involve my friends and colleagues from the competition in my activities.
In general, participation in the competition and my activities have taught me that victory thrives on preparations and long-term efforts. This conviction produced results.
First example. As early as 2017, we started sending drones to the front and even producing them there. Owing to this, we were the first volunteer group last spring to launch massive training of UAV operators. As of today, we have trained over 900 specialists.
The second breakthrough took place when we were, probably also the first among volunteers, to buy large drones that can fly 50–80 km. We also started training operators for them. In fact, this is happening right now, this very minute.
Third, there are events in which we take part or that we hold. Thus, in late July, we will participate in the Archipelago-2035 event in Novosibirsk, where we will demonstrate our skills in training people. The most important event for me is Dronnitsa that we will hold in Veliky Novgorod and Demyansk in late August with support from the Novgorod Governor. This is a meeting of combat drone operators. We want these specialists to meet each other, exchange experience, and also we’d like to demonstrate to them the drones produced by volunteers – who and what exactly is producing today. It will be a kind of volunteer achievement exhibition, if I may say so.
Today, I have the grounds to say that we are capable of long and determined efforts for the sake of victory. Most importantly, we are ready to do as much as is necessary.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much for working in what is one of the main areas. This is obvious. Drones are very important in all civilian environments as well, but now they are primarily vital in the military sphere.
There are many developments and ideas. There are also proposals on how to better organise this work by creating uniform centres and looking into the future. It is important to decide how to change the situation related to legal regulation and how to remove the obstacles in the way of development. Today, this is crucial and timely at the same time.
I wish you success in everything. If we can help you in any way, we will be pleased to do so. All the best to you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Now I would like to address members of the Supervisory Board. Colleagues, do you have any ideas or comments on how the work has been organised or what needs to be done for it to be organised even better? Over to you, please.
Member of the Supervisory Board of the Russia – Land of Opportunity autonomous non-profit organisation and acting Governor of the Krasnoyarsk Territory Mikhail Kotyukov: Mr President, colleagues, good afternoon,
During these five years, Russia – Land of Opportunity has done a great deal – many projects, many engaged and active people, and a well-appointed infrastructure. I would like to support what Vitaly Khotsenko and Ivan Safronov were saying and reinforce the work that is being done in the regions.
It is fine that there are regional stages, but, on the one hand, more finals can be held in the regions of the Russian Federation. For the future, we might think about having some joint events for the finalists from different projects – a festival or perhaps a rally of winners.
My third, practical proposal is that we could add to the “family” mentioned by Andrei Betin – Taurida, Mashuk, and Senezh – a centre that would promote work in Siberia, the Russian Far East, and the Ural region. What I mean is that we could have an Asian branch of the school of management, which would help boys and girls to improve their managerial skills and implement important projects on the spot without having to travel to Moscow.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you, Mr Kotyukov.
Alexei Komissarov: Thank you very much.
In fact, working in the regions is one of our top priorities. I would like to thank all Supervisory Board members and the governors for their support. We really feel that there is a lot of interest on the part of all officials in finding talent and promoting them.
As for a separate centre in Siberia, we will contact Mr Kotyukov. We might suggest some options borrowed from the existing branches of, for example, the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration. If the Supervisory Board adopts a corresponding decision, we will probably propose something additionally. We will study this matter.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Please, colleagues, is there anything else? Is that all? Then we will wrap up the meeting, because I have another event to get to; our moderator has mentioned the work with the Government.
I want to thank you for what you have done. I want to express my hope and confidence that even more will be done later. I wish you the best of luck.
Thank you.
Topics
Civil service
Professional training
Persons
Chernyshenko Dmitry
Golikova Tatyana
Khotsenko Vitaly
Komissarov Alexei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2023, 16:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a videoconference meeting with Government members.
July 19, 2023
20:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 7
During the meeting with Government members (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Sergei Kiriyenko
, Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Dmitry Grigorenko
, Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Deputy Prime Minister – Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
, deputy prime ministers Viktoria Abramchenko
, Tatyana Golikova
, Alexander Novak
, Alexei Overchuk
, Marat Khusnullin
and Dmitry Chernyshenko
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
and Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
. Minister for Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief Alexander Kurenkov
, Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Alexander Kozlov
, Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
, Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Maksut Shadayev
, Governor of the Central Bank Elvira Nabiullina
, Head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Maxim Shaskolsky
, and CEO and Chairman of the Sberbank Management Board German Gref
were also invited to attend the meeting.
* * *
Excerpts from transcript of videoconference meeting with Government members
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
Today we have a very important matter to discuss: the introduction of artificial intelligence in economic sectors.
But, as usual, let us begin with current issues, the first one being addressed to Mr Aksyonov: what is the situation like at the training ground in the Kirov District of Crimea?
Governor of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov
: Mr President, colleagues,
With your permission, Mr President, I will begin my report.
At about four in the morning a fire broke out at the military training ground in the Kirov District of the Republic of Crimea. As a consequence, some of the ammunition stored at the site detonated due to the fire. I went to the site, and within an hour we created an emergency operations centre comprising representatives of federal, republican and municipal authorities. On the spot, together with my colleagues, first of all, with law enforcement officers, we fully assessed the situation.
After assessing the situation, I made an on-the-spot decision to evacuate the residents of four communities that live within a radius of five kilometres from the epicentre: about 2,200 people in total.
(Sergei Aksyonov reported on arranging temporary accommodation and alternative routes in close proximity to the training ground.)
Mr President, the situation is fully under control. No deaths, injuries or damage have been reported. I want to thank my colleagues from the federal centre and municipal bodies. Everybody performed their duties. All decisions were taken promptly. Thanks to these measures and your support, the situation will get back to normal within 24 hours.
Mr President, no involvement on your side is required. My colleagues and I have everything under control.
Vladimir Putin: All right, Mr Aksyonov. We still need to investigate the cause of the fire. As concerns helping people and ensuring their security, you must do everything it takes. I believe it will not take much time. The fire will go out eventually. But for now, it is important to be careful.
Thank you.
Sergei Aksyonov: We are fulfilling your instruction, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Savelyev, tell us about the current state of affairs in air transportation.
Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
: Thank you.
Mr President, colleagues.
According to the approved comprehensive development programme for the aviation industry, Russian airlines are expected to carry 101.2 million passengers this year. It should be noted that this performance indicator was set on the condition that the 11 airports located in southern Russia, with passenger traffic of about 19 million per year, would operate.
Despite the fact that these 11 airports are still closed, I want to note that we have already carried one million passengers in excess of the number planned to date. The passenger traffic as of the end of the first half of the year totalled 47.5 million, which is almost 18 percent higher than during the same period last year when we carried just over 40 million.
I want to emphasise, Mr President, that, based on this workload, we will transport more than 100 million passengers this year and will meet the target even despite the closure of the 11 Russian airports. With these airports also in operation, we would be able to carry around 120 million, a figure comparable to 2019 when, in the absence of any restrictions, our airlines flew all over the world and transported 128 million people. We are close to this number.
The high demand for air travel and the current workload indicate that it is necessary to increase the fleet. Therefore, we are looking forward to obtaining more aircraft from our aircraft manufacturers, in accordance with orders placed by airlines. We will certainly benefit from the fleet expansion because the demand is very high.
I will report separately on international transportation. As of now, 17 Russian airlines make direct flights to 24 countries. We are also open to international traffic: 52 foreign airlines from 29 countries make flights to Russia. We are working systematically to restore international air traffic.
We resumed flights to Georgia on May 19 thanks to your decision, and we are gradually increasing the number of flights. To date, we make 33 flights per week.
On June 4, the IrAero airline opened Irkutsk-Hanoi flights to Vietnam, and it makes two flights per week now.
We have increased the number of flights to Cuba. In 2022, only one Russian company, Nordwind, made charter flights to Cuba. On July 1, 2023, Rossiya Airlines started flying to the island, and it makes regular flights from Moscow to Varadero twice a week now to meet the increased passenger demand.
Thanks to the growth of international traffic, this year we plan to transport about 20 million passengers on international flights. This means that the number of passengers on international flights will increase by 12 percent year on year.
Domestic air services remain a priority for us in terms of the number of passengers and the development of domestic tourism. Russian airlines have greatly increased their destination networks in the 2023 summer season. <…>
We can meet the current transportation demands thanks to a modern aircraft fleet. We still have 1,166 passenger airliners, including 94 long-distance ones.
This is enough to cater for domestic and international travel requirements. Our airlines have the necessary stocks of spare parts and consumable and expendable materials despite the more complicated supply logistics.
Maintenance and repair services are provided in Russia by three large, accredited organisations, which have the required number of personnel and the necessary equipment. The standards of flight safety requirements remain invariably high. We are closely monitoring the safety standards of our aircraft pool.
The development of domestic travel is unthinkable without the necessary infrastructure. As of now, we are implementing 43 projects within the framework of measures to develop airport infrastructure; 18 of them are scheduled to be completed this year, including 10 runways and eight auxiliary infrastructure facilities.
Transport infrastructure is a key driver of the regions’ economic growth. Taking into account the vast territory of our country and the large distances between centres of attraction in the regions, the development of airport infrastructure is one of our priorities.
(The minister also reported on the 2023 subsidies to the industry, rising transport prices, and increasing demand for air transportation. Vitaly Savelyev cited the example of the national carrier, Aeroflot. In the first five months of 2023, the airlines has transported 16 million passengers or 23 percent more than in the same period last year. The passenger load factor in the period under review reached a record high figure of 88 percent.)
In conclusion, I would like to say that Russia is increasing transportation on domestic and international flights despite the sanction restrictions. The availability of air transport and high service standards are the factors that make travelling with Russian airlines attractive to people.
Thank you. This concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Savelyev, on which flights have ticket prices increased, domestic or international ones?
Vitaly Savelyev: They did on some flights. This depends on the demand.
Prices have always been higher on international flights because we have to pay in foreign currency for our planes to fly abroad, for example, to Turkiye or the United Arab Emirates.
Some routes in Russia enjoy increased demand, which explains the rise in ticket prices for these flights. Overall, we are above plan for international flights now and below plan for domestic flights, just like last year. One of the main reasons is that 11 of our southern airports are currently not operating.
Vladimir Putin: You have mentioned the reasons for the growth of tariffs and ticket prices, including logistics reasons and the delivery of the necessary spare parts.
Do you remember that I tried to convince you to buy more Russian-made planes when you were the chairman of Aeroflot? There were several heated debates between us then. You reasoned that our Western partners were reliable, that all was well and that they were good people. Today, our aircraft producers cannot increase their production capacities overnight. This will take time, even though there is a demand for their products now, and it is growing. It is one more factor linked to the increase in tariffs. Nevertheless, I very much hope that this problem will be resolved and that transportation requirements will be met through joint work with your colleagues in the industry, the Industry Ministry and sector-specific enterprises.
Ms Nabiullina, how are things with the third form of national currency? What are your plans in this department?
Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina
: Good afternoon,
I think we are talking about the digital ruble. I will now go over the completed phases of the project to create the digital ruble and then outline our further moves.
As you may recall, in 2021, we published the concept, discussed it with the market participants, stakeholder ministries and agencies, and experts. In late 2021, we created a digital ruble platform prototype. In 2022, we built the platform. This year, it became commercially available. In other words, we quickly, within two years, built an infrastructure of our own design. This platform relies on a hybrid architecture and combines the advantages provided by a centralised system with the distributed register technology, blockchain. Individuals and legal entities will be able to use this platform to open digital wallets to credit digital rubles.
The Bank of Russia is operating this platform meaning that the Bank of Russia is liable for operations with digital rubles and the safety of funds kept in digital wallets. Transactions and digital wallet balances will be protected by bank-client privilege in the same way regular bank accounts are.
Last year, we conducted test transactions with 13 banks. In August, we will launch pilot operations with actual digital rubles with the participation of the clients from this pilot group of banks.
The digital ruble is the third, additional form of national currency same as cash and non-cash money. All three forms will be equal meaning that one digital ruble will be equal to one cash ruble and one non-cash ruble. It complements the existing payment instruments that we use now. These funds will be used for payments and wire transfers, meaning that deposits or loans in digital rubles will not be available.
(Elvira Nabiullina went on to discuss new opportunities offered by the digital ruble. In particular, digital ruble-based transactions will be cost-free for individuals, and businesses will save money on accepting non-cash payments. The head of the Central Bank also spoke about the upcoming digital ruble testing with high-level requirements for information security in mind).
Many countries are creating their own national digital currencies. The digital ruble platform capability includes the option for cross-border interaction. Two scenarios are possible here. The first one includes interaction between our platform and the digital currency platform of another country. The second scenario includes the creation of a common clearance centre that can accommodate digital currency platforms from different countries. We are discussing both options with the countries that are willing to be part of this project.
After we make sure that everything is working properly, we will decide on additional steps to scale the digital ruble. According to our estimates, this could happen in 2025 or later. Clearly, it will take several years for the digital ruble to become part of our everyday life.
The launch of the digital ruble will make Russia one of the first countries with a national digital currency, a national payment card system, its own fast payment system, and its own alternative to SWIFT in the form of the Financial Messaging System. We will continue to introduce low-cost and convenient services for individuals, businesses and the state.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Great. Thank you very much.
Ms Golikova, you and I just took part in an event hosted by the Russia – Land of Opportunity platform, whose participants discussed tourism. In this connection, I have a question about electronic visas. How is this work going?
Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
: Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues,
On your instruction, we started working on single electronic visas in 2019. The single electronic visa for entry into our country for 16 days for tourist, business, humanitarian and visitor purposes was supposed to be launched on January 1, 2021. The requisite regulatory framework has been put in place, and in October 2020 the Government approved a list of 52 countries and identified 92 state border entry points where the electronic visa would be valid. The Foreign Ministry has created a dedicated website and a dedicated mobile app available for downloading on this website for foreign citizens to submit visa applications.
However, the pandemic interfered with launching the e-visa system on January 1, 2021. On July 14, 2022, the coronavirus restrictions were lifted. However, today, the procedure approved by you, Mr President, remains in force, according to which a moratorium on issuance of e-visas was imposed on March 5, 2022 as part of visa-related measures in response to unfriendly moves by certain states.
In September 2022, during a meeting of the State Council Presidium, you issued instructions to submit proposals for the resumption of a single electronic visa for nationals of foreign states that are not on the list of unfriendly states.
Nevertheless, in conjunction with our colleagues from the federal executive authorities, primarily the Foreign Ministry, the Interior Ministry, and the Federal Security Service, we have done some extra work on this matter, and I have the following important message to convey: we believe it is inappropriate to deny issuance of electronic visas for short-term trips to Russia to the citizens of unfriendly countries as a response to unfriendly actions by the official authorities of those countries.
Maintaining simplified entry regulations for the citizens of these countries for tourism purposes, or for participation in scientific, sporting, and cultural events, or to maintain business contacts amid sanctions restrictions will primarily serve the interests of our State.
As for holders of diplomatic and service passports from unfriendly countries, they will not be able to obtain single electronic visas. As I earlier said, this procedure has been agreed upon by everyone.
In order to ensure security, the information to be provided by foreign citizens in order to obtain single electronic visas has been significantly expanded to ensure that undesirable individuals do not enter the territory of the Russian Federation.
Mindful of an additional discussion that was held in accordance with your instruction, we propose keeping unchanged the list of 52 countries that was drafted earlier, and adding three more countries – Vietnam, Cambodia and Myanmar – to it and launching electronic visas on August 1, 2023. All acceptance tests have been performed, and we are ready for this work.
Thank you and I would like you to support it.
Vladimir Putin: Good. Thank you for doing this ahead of schedule. I am sure people will find it helpful.
Now I would like to ask Mr Patrushev to speak on how field work is going, whether our agriculture sector has enough fuel and lubricants, whether credit schemes are working, and so on.
Please.
Minister of Agriculture Dmitry Patrushev
: Thank you, Mr President.
Colleagues,
The sowing campaign in Russia has been completed. It went off without a hitch. We have carried out spring sowing on an area of 57 million hectares, of which more than 31 million hectares are under grain crops.
This structure of crop areas will make it possible to maintain a balance and provide the necessary volume of crop production for domestic consumption and also for world markets. I will add that 19 million hectares are under winter crops. This is higher than the long-term average.
We, of course, focus on monitoring the availability of all types of resources for our farmers. We are working on purchasing mineral fertilisers and agricultural machinery. Together with our colleagues from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, we control the availability of fuels and lubricants and plant protection products. Today, we can say that our farmers are fully provided with all types of resources.
Next is the financial coverage. All support tools are in demand for seasonal field work. They are in force and are preserved. Agricultural producers have access to subsidies for the purchase of fertilisers, fuels and lubricants, machinery, and plant protection products, among other things. As of today, about 102.5 billion rubles have been given to recipients in general, which is 67 percent of the stipulated limits.
The harvesting campaign has already entered an active phase and is being carried out in 35 regions of the Russian Federation. Cereals have been threshed from an area covering over 5.5 million hectares. More than 21 million tonnes of grain have been harvested. Almost 200,000 tonnes of potatoes and 242,000 tonnes of vegetables were harvested. I would also like to note here that the harvesting campaign is being actively carried out in new regions. About 700,000 tonnes of grain have been threshed there.
Thus, seasonal field work as a whole is being carried out basically as planned. If the weather is good, we expect a decent harvest for the main crops.
In particular, we expect at least 123 million tonnes of grain. And, as I said, this is optimal for maintaining balance in the domestic market and developing our foreign trade potential. I would like to emphasise that we see the potential for foreign trade with this harvest, about 55 million tonnes, so we will be able to feed our friendly partners.
Mr President, I would like to highlight one fact. As a result of non-fulfillment of Russia’s requirements under the grain deal, our transportation costs for exports have increased significantly. So exporters partly shift these costs to grain producers and our crop growers. We can say that the profitability of grain producers in Russia has almost halved over the year.
As a result, our grain producers made about 333 billion rubles in profit in 2021, and only 204 billion rubles in 2022. The lost income or losses in general, as it can be called, amounted to about 130 billion rubles. I would also like to draw your attention to this.
That concludes my report.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Of course, Russia’s participation in the grain deal, meaning in solving issues related to exports of grain and cereals from the territory of Ukraine, directly concerns the interests of our farmers, as well as fertiliser producers.
In this sense, as you can see, we are talking about the so-called grain deal the Minister has just mentioned. The deal was made a year ago on July 22, 2022. Then this so-called deal was extended several times, the last time in May, through July 17. We extended this deal many times, and, in doing so, showed miraculous endurance, patience, and tolerance, hoping that our foreign colleagues would finally begin to fully comply with the agreed and approved parameters and conditions.
However, nothing like that happened, and no one was going to fulfill any obligations or agreements, but only constantly demanded something from Russia: to do one thing, then another, to provide this and that. Just outright arrogance and impudence, promises and empty chatter. All they did was compromise themselves with this; they undermined the authority, including the leadership of the UN Secretariat, which actually acted as a guarantor of the grain deal.
I must say that UN employees were sincerely trying to make good on all the promises of the West, but failed. They did almost nothing for the deal’s proper functioning, while our so-called Western partners put a lot of effort into torpedoing it. They did everything possible for this. Today they are literally lying to the whole world, saying matter-of-factly that Russia is supposedly to blame for the failure of this deal. Moreover, they blame Russia for almost all the disasters befalling the populations of African countries and several others, which the West once robbed and pushed into the abyss of wars, hunger and poverty, and now continues to plunder these states under its neo-colonial system. It profited shamelessly from the grain deal and completely distorted the meaning of these agreements and their essence. Let me remind you that initially the deal was aimed at ensuring global food security, reducing the threat of hunger and helping the poorest countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.
Actually, that is why Russia assumed certain obligations to facilitate its implementation, but this “deal” which the West was publicly presenting as them caring about the benefit to the poorest countries, was in fact used to enrich large American and European businesses that exported and resold grain from Ukraine.
Look, over the course of almost a year 32.8 million tonnes of grain were exported from Ukraine in total under this deal, 70 percent of which arrived in rich countries, above all countries of the European Union, while such countries as Ethiopia, Sudan, Somalia, Afghanistan, and Yemen – the poorest ones – received less than three percent of the total volume, or less than one million tonnes. At the same time, none of the deal’s conditions regarding the lifting of sanctions on Russian exports of grain and fertilisers to global markets have been fulfilled.
Moreover, obstacles are created even to our donations of mineral fertilisers to the poorest countries in need. Out of the 262,000 tonnes of fertilisers blocked in European ports, only two batches were sent: 20,000 tonnes to Malawi and 34,000 tonnes to Kenya. The rest remains in the Europeans’ unscrupulous hands, despite the fact that we are talking about a purely humanitarian action, to which no sanctions should apply in principle.
I will add one more thing. Some European countries that pay lip service to the necessity to give Ukraine the opportunity to export agricultural products, prohibit, and I want to emphasise this, the import of Ukrainian grain on their territory, citing the interests of their own producers.
Let me repeat that Russia, understanding the importance of global supplies of food and fertilisers, especially to the poorest countries, extended the deal several times, while Western countries used any pretext, or no pretext at all, to refuse to fulfill their obligations, including removing barriers to our agricultural exports. This resulted in direct losses of Russian farmers and enterprises producing fertilisers. Now the Minister said that, due to a 30–40 percent discount on our grain on the world markets, the losses of Russian farmers, if converted into US dollars, amounted to $1.2 billion.
In addition to this, the growing costs of seagoing freight to carry goods, costs of international financial settlements and other transactions have resulted in the halving of profitability for grain exports. Our fertiliser producers have also faced a similar problem: their losses are about $1.6 billion. For example, the cost of imported spare parts for their equipment and equipment in general increased by 40 percent, and costs for financial transactions grew by about 10 percent.
I will add a few more figures to make it clear. Ukraine produced about 55 million tonnes of grain last year, and its exports amounted to 47 million tonnes, including 17 million tonnes of wheat, while Russia harvested 156 million tonnes of grain last year and exported 60 million tonnes, of which 48 million tonnes were wheat. Russia’s share on the global wheat market is 20 percent, while that of Ukraine is less than five percent. These figures speak for themselves: it is Russia that makes a colossal contribution to global food security; and all claims that Ukrainian grain feeds the hungry around the world are speculation and lies. I would like to assure you that Russia is able to replace Ukrainian grain both on a commercial and free basis, especially since this year we again expect a record harvest, as the Minister reported.
Given all the factors I mentioned earlier today, it makes no sense to extend the grain deal the way it was. That is why we have objected to extending this so-called deal further. The deal expired on July 18.
I would like to emphasise that we are not against the deal per se, all the more so if we consider its importance for the global food market and for many countries of the world, and we will certainly consider the possibility of resuming our participation in it, only on the condition that all, without exception, principles of Russia’s involvement in this deal that had been earlier agreed are fully taken into account and, most importantly, are acted on.
I will remind you of the details.
First, there is lifting the sanctions on supplying Russian grain and fertilisers to world markets.
Second, all obstacles put in the way of Russian banks, financial institutions which service food and fertiliser supplies must be removed, including their immediate reconnection to SWIFT. We do not need promises or ideas regarding this; we want this condition to be met.
Third, supplies of spare parts for agricultural machinery and the fertiliser industry to Russia must be resumed.
Next, all issues relating to ship chartering and insurance of Russian food export deliveries must be resolved and food supply logistics must be ensured in full.
Next, conditions that do not hinder the growth of supplies of Russian fertilisers and the raw materials for their production must be created, such as resuming the operation of the Togliatti-Odessa ammonia pipeline, which was clearly blown up and destroyed on the Kiev regime’s order. Actually, this act of sabotage has received no response from the international community or from the UN.
Russian assets related to the agricultural sector must be released.
I will not list all the terms under which our country agreed to take part in this grain deal – they are specified, in particular, in the relevant Russia-UN Memorandum. You can read it to learn more about them. Most importantly, our Western colleagues must deliver on them.
The only thing I want to note again is that, initially, the essence and the meaning of the grain deal were of great humanitarian importance. The West has completely nullified and distorted this meaning. Instead of providing aid to the countries which really need it, the West has used the grain deal for political blackmail and, in addition, as I already said, has made it a tool that allowed transnational corporations of speculators in the global grain market to enrich themselves.
Finally, Russia’s basic conditions for resuming its involvement in the grain deal include restoring its initial humanitarian purpose. As soon as all of these conditions that we agreed earlier – I did not invent them just now – are fulfilled, we will promptly resume our participation in this deal.
Let us proceed to the main issue.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: What would I like to say in conclusion? There is no need to talk about the importance of the issue – everything has been already said. Today, we heard new, additional proposals on supporting domestic developments in artificial intelligence. Maybe, I will repeat something but I still consider it important to say this.
We talked about the introduction of this technology in state management at all levels, in the economy and in the social area. I would like to emphasise once again: the importance of these efforts are well known. The effect is already obvious and concerns the speed of managerial decision-making and the improvement of the quality and convenience of services for the public and businesses and so on.
Russia is already a global leader in many fields of digital solutions. Despite the shortcomings, omissions and defects, we still have the grounds to say that we are among the leaders. But, of course, we must continuously improve this position and do it on our own scientific and technological foundation. I understand perfectly that there are restrictions and that we cannot do without certain ties, contacts and developments at a global level. That said, we must be thinking about our own resources in a bid to ensure true technological sovereignty of our country. I will note a number of specific measures in this area.
First, I would like to recall that we agreed to provide government support for research centres on artificial intelligence until 2030. In this context, we must work out all regulatory, organisational and financial issues. In particular, funds for financing these centres must be part of the federal budget for 2024−2026. If this is not done, there will be no progress.
Second, it is necessary to expand support for companies with state participation, the companies that are using or are planning to use mechanisms of artificial intelligence in their work. Please consider this a direct instruction. It is necessary to work with these companies. Yes, of course, changes will have to be made in the corporate strategies of digital transformation. This is beyond doubt. I would like to ask the Government to deal with this issue in detail with these companies, as I said.
Third. The key aspect of artificial intelligence projects, as we know very well, is processing large amounts of data. I have already said many times that data concerning our citizens must be anonymised and safely stored. It is important to organise access to data for market participants taking into account these mandatory requirements. I ask the Government and the State Duma to consider and adopt a corresponding law during the upcoming autumn session.
Fourth. We have launched experimental legal regimes for digital innovation; however, their mechanisms certainly require improvement, including at the legislative level. It is necessary to simplify access to these regimes and to introduce liability insurance for potential damage caused when using artificial intelligence. We have discussed it many times. Please finish this work during the autumn session.
Fifth. As I have already noted, AI technologies obviously bring direct economic benefits. However, their implementation is not so extensive at the initial stage. We have leaders but also a substantial cohort on the subs’ bench. We have already agreed on what should be done: it is necessary to make using AI mandatory for companies that plan to receive subsidies from the federal budget. If you want subsidies, please develop this segment.
Sixth. The most vital issue is training digital technology professionals. All higher education institutions have already received an updated training module on AI systems recommended for inclusion in their compulsory study programmes. I believe we can make a decisive move and declare this module compulsory. Please work this through.
As for draft instructions, they will certainly be signed, especially since you drafted them yourselves. And as is usually the case, these instructions are not meant to serve as impositions but are supposed to be reminders for achieving certain milestones and discipline with respect to fulfilling the plans we discussed today.
Thank you very much for today’s work together.
Topics
Economy and finance
Persons
Aksyonov Sergei
Golikova Tatyana
Nabiullina Elvira
Patrushev Dmitry
3 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 19, 2023, 20:45
Text version