Events
Video address to the participants of the first International Forum of Ministers of Education
June 8, 2023
11:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
Video address to the participants of the first International Forum of Ministers of Education.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
Welcome to the first International Forum of Ministers of Education.
We are delighted to see the heads of ministries responsible for preschool, general and higher education from various countries, teachers and representatives of reputable scientific organisations, in the hospitable city of Kazan.
You will discuss a wide range of professional issues related to the development of education, exchange experience and advanced technologies and practices in this area.
Man, its knowledge, outlook and craving for the unknown are becoming – have already become – the main driving force of development in the 21st century. Therefore, it is important to ensure equal opportunities for people in all countries to unlock their talent and to receive education. It is essential that all states guarantee its availability and vigorously apply modern standards, which will not only give learners solid knowledge and skills, but also instil the right values in the younger generation – the values that rely on the traditions and culture of their nations.
Russia has a powerful potential in education and strong teaching and scientific schools. Over the past 20 years, Russia has thoroughly modernised its education system. In fact, educational programmes continue to be fine-tuned to incorporate the growing needs of young people, the rapid social, economic and technological changes in the world and certainly the grand new goals of the national development agenda we are striving to attain. This process is ongoing.
All children in Russia have equal access to free and high-quality preschool, general and further education today. The country has an up-to-date system for managing and evaluating the quality of education based on objective data.
We have one of the most effective systems in the world for identifying, supporting and developing the abilities and talents of children and youth, which is convincingly evidenced by international surveys as well as the Russian teams’ brilliant victories at international school Olympiads.
Let me emphasise that Russia is open to the widest possible cooperation in the field of education. We are ready to share our experience in implementing the best practices, including programmes for children with disabilities, as well as to provide assistance to other countries in creating education infrastructure according to Russian standards.
I will add that our country has unique experience in implementing digital and remote learning technologies.
We do a lot to support and develop education in other countries. The number of teachers participating in the Russian Teacher Abroad programme is growing from year to year. Our teachers are currently working at foreign educational institutions as part of the projects under the ongoing Year of Teachers and Mentors in Russia. This work will definitely be expanded in the coming years.
We will certainly continue to support the professional development of teachers and management personnel in education from all friendly countries. Many leading Russian universities have been focusing on this for a long time.
Russia is ready to generously share the national achievements in teaching, which underpin Russia’s scientific and technological development. Such a vibrant and honest exchange of ideas and unusual approaches are very important. At the same time, we deem this totally unacceptable when foreign rules and patterns are imposed, often rudely and unceremoniously, on sovereign states, including in the sphere of education or mentoring.
On the contrary, we support the rights of every people, every nation and every unique civilisation on any continent to preserve their identity, ensure the continuity of generations, and preserve traditional spiritual and moral values.
I hope that during the forum, you will propose and discuss new interesting joint projects, and the recommendations you develop will serve to improve and develop the education sector in your countries.
I wish you fruitful work and all the best.
Thank you.
Topics
School
Universities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2023, 11:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Governor of the Orel Region Andrei Klychkov
Vladimir Putin held a meeting with Orel Region Governor Andrei Klychkov to discuss the region’s socioeconomic development.
June 8, 2023
14:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 4
With Governor of the Orel Region Andrei Klychkov.
The President started the conversation by pointing out that Orel was recognised as Russia’s literary capital in 2021, and asked the Governor to report on dedicated events.
Andrei Klychkov
agreed that few regions could boast as many prominent Russian classics as the Orel Region, including Ivan Bunin, Afanasy Fet, Ivan Turgenev, Nikolai Leskov, Leonid Andreyev, Alexei Apukhtin, and many other writers and poets. This is why literature is central to the ongoing effort to shape the Orel Region’s identity and branding. In particular, it held major celebrations to mark Ivan Turgenev’s 200th birthday.
The Governor went on to deliver a performance report. Over the past five years, the region has increased its gross regional product by 60 percent, while regional budget revenue grew by 80 percent. Investment increased by 40 percent, defying expectations that Covid and the economic sanctions would make investors wary. Manufacturing was up by 80 percent, and agricultural production rose by 140 percent, while the region’s per capita agricultural yields exceeded the national average 3.5-fold. The Orel Region grows about 6 metric tonnes of grain per resident.
In the budget sphere, the region has managed to retain stability, reducing its government debt by 32 percent. In 2020–2021, 12.1 percent of its people lived below the poverty line, down from 13.9 in 2017. Average salaries increased by 60 percent, and reported unemployment decreased 52 percent over a five-year term. As of today, the number of unemployed is less than 2,000 people, while there are 11,000 job openings in the region. The region’s SMEs have restored their pre-pandemic employment levels.
Andrei Klychkov went on to say that this would have been impossible without creating new jobs, facilitating business activity, proactive supervision and oversight, as well as efforts to cut red tape. The region reduced the so-called investment journey by 171 days.
The Governor emphasised that it was impossible to resolve many sensitive issues without the national projects. This applies to the figures on road construction – over 1,200 kilometres of roads have been built in five years, and housing construction – 1.7 million square metres of housing were built in five years.
To cope with local challenges, among which Mr Klychkov mentioned demography, the region built six new kindergartens, upgraded 172 rural schools, and purchased 141 units of medical equipment. The region is building new medical and obstetrics centres and modernising its outpatient clinics. It is doing much to resettle people from dilapidated housing on a large scale. This year, it spent 1.2 billion rubles from the federal budget and 650 million rubles from the regional budget for this purpose.
Andrei Klychkov also described the region’s current projects. This year, the Orel Region is completing the construction of its biggest school – for 1,225 schoolchildren. It is also finishing the reconstruction of the Krasny (Red) Bridge, Orel’s key transport corridor. A children’s technology park – Quantorium – will be created on the grounds of the former entertainment club that was purchased from private owners.
Replying to the President’s question about the construction of a football arena, Mr Klychkov said that roofed sports fields had been built in every district to develop football. In the winter, they will be used as ice rinks and in the summer as football fields. Having created the basics for developing public sports, the region has turned to professional sports. Importantly, all players will be from the Orel Region. There will be no legionnaires. The region has set a goal to win the tournament in its league in the Central Federal District and move up to the next league.
Mr Klychkov recalled that in the beginning of his gubernatorial activity in 2018, the President determined certain areas of work for him, for instance, the development of education. Orel is a city of students, which number around 50,000. Owing to the President’s instructions and the Prime Minister’s support, a project for an education campus has been drafted. It is now in the design stage. A contractor has been chosen and the groundbreaking ceremony is planned for August.
The President spoke by telephone with Acting Governor of the Kherson Region Vladimir Saldo to discuss the situation in the region after the collapse of the sabotaged Kakhovskaya hydroelectric power plant.
Following the conversation, Vladimir Putin instructed the Emergencies Ministry to provide all necessary assistance to households affected by the flood, in full compliance with the standards of the Russian Federation. The President also instructed officials to identify the entire scope of additional needs that may arise in the region in the aftermath of this act of sabotage and the flooding it caused.
Geography
Orel Region
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Social services
Persons
Klychkov Andrey
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 8, 2023, 14:10
Text version