Events
Meeting of judges of general jurisdiction, military and arbitration courts
The President took part, via videoconference, in the annual meeting of judges of Russia’s general jurisdiction, military and arbitration courts to review the performance of the Russian judicial system in 2022 and priorities for the current year.
February 14, 2023
17:05
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
Meeting of judges of general jurisdiction, military and arbitration courts (via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
Mr Lebedev
, good afternoon.
I welcome everyone to this traditional annual meeting.
You and I met at the 10th National Congress of Judges in late November last year, when you discussed in detail the pressing issues of developing the judicial system, optimising judicial proceedings and improving the work of the judiciary and the judicial community.
It is important that the decisions adopted following the Congress result in real change, improve the quality of the judicial system and, as a result, make it more accessible and efficient for our citizens to protect their rights, freedoms and legitimate interests. This is the key to Russia's development as a democratic state governed by the rule of law, a country with high social standards, a competitive business climate and an attractive national jurisdiction.
You have an agenda full of important issues today, too. First of all, you will have to analyse and assess the results of the courts' work in 2022 and set priorities for the near future.
I would like to point out that in 2022, the courts heard more than 40 million cases in all types of judicial proceedings, which is one million more than a year earlier. Thus, the workload of judges – first and foremost, of general jurisdiction judges – has increased, and you will have to devise specific measures to optimise it.
Establishing uniform court practice is also very important. We have noted on more than one occasion the need to ensure that Russian justice is socially-oriented, and it is very important that this trend continues.
The Supreme Court has comprehensively analysed judicial practice in cases involving the protection of children's rights, for example, in its plenary rulings and reviews of the Presidium adopted over the past year. It clarified a number of essential issues relating to the protection of labour and pension rights of citizens and many other sensitive matters for our society.
Notably, a number of legislative resolutions on social support for military personnel and mobilised citizens and their families have been adopted recently, and corresponding amendments have been made to the procedural legislation.
They include additional grounds for suspending legal proceedings, including instances when a citizen who is a party to a case is participating in combat operations as part of the Armed Forces or other military formations or performs tasks in a state of emergency or martial law.
Please note that any consideration of such cases and issues should be carried out thoroughly with respect not only to the legal aspects, but also to specific life circumstances and situations. The rights of our military personnel and their families must be protected to the fullest extent of the law.
Another serious issue that you will need to discuss, as far as I know, is the introduction of IT into legal proceedings. Recently, in December 2022, the Criminal Procedure Code was amended. The amendments regulate the procedure for conducting a court session in the criminal process in a videoconference format.
It is absolutely clear that the use of “digital” in legal proceedings will expand, and our judicial system must be fully prepared for this – technically and organisationally – and, most importantly, citizens’ constitutional rights must be strictly observed.
Colleagues,
Through law enforcement practice, the judiciary has always helped create a favourable business and investment climate in our country. Today, amid the sanctions aggression – there is no other way to say it – against Russia, this is especially important.
In this regard, the question of legislative guarantees for the protection of businesspeople from unjustified criminal prosecution, including a ban on extending the period for detaining suspects or individuals accused of crimes in the economic sphere, as well as the choice of preventive measures comes up again. For example, bail or house arrest could be used instead of isolation from society. This will promote the humanisation of justice.
And, finally, one more matter of principle. As you are aware, last March, Russia withdrew from the Council of Europe, and in September it withdrew from the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights.
The reasons for these steps are well known; they are obvious and do not need any special comment. Some ECHR rulings have become openly politicised. True, it was a while back, but it has taken on an absolutely unacceptable character lately. Bias and partiality, no matter how they may be justified, are absolutely unacceptable for the judiciary.
Then, federal laws were adopted here, according to which the ECHR rulings which entered into force after March 15, 2022, are not enforceable in Russia.
Moreover, amendments have been made to our procedural legislation regarding the revision of judicial acts adopted by Russian courts on the basis of the ECHR rulings.
Thus, provisions to the effect that the ECHR rulings are the basis for revising judicial acts that have entered into force on new or newly discovered circumstances have been excluded from the procedural codes.
Of course, the legal community and sensible people around the country started thinking about the consequences of our decisions, and a discussion ensued. The question was put bluntly: would withdrawal from the ECHR entail a decrease in the level of protection of the rights and freedoms of our country’s citizens. I will not hide it, I have thought about this too, because we must ensure the interests of citizens in any case. But in the end, I believe, our judicial system can reliably protect both rights and freedoms using national judicial mechanisms.
Clearly, any state system and any part of a state mechanism have issues that require special attention. But in order to do everything that is in the interests of our state and our citizens (everything that is in the interests of citizens is in the interests of the state), one has to use every tool and legal mechanism available in the interests of our people and, to reiterate, the sovereign development of Russia in general.
I am sure that your meeting will be held in a constructive and business-like manner, and its decisions will further improve the quality of the work of the courts and the efficiency and accessibility of justice.
I wish you productive work and every success.
Thank you for your attention.
<…>
Topics
Court
Fight against crime
Persons
Lebedev Vyacheslav
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 14, 2023, 17:05
Text versionEvents
Meeting with leader of A Just Russia – For the Truth party Sergei Mironov
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with head of the A Just Russia – For the Truth political party faction in the State Duma Sergei Mironov.
February 14, 2023
18:55
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 3
With leader of A Just Russia – For the Truth party Sergei Mironov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Mironov, generally, we are in constant contact, but no one has cancelled in-person meetings, they always make sense. I suggest discussing the current situation. But I know, you have a number of issues that you would like to discuss in greater detail.
Please.
Leader of the A Just Russia – For the Truth party Sergei Mironov
: Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the opportunity to meet. It is a very good tradition to meet with the leaders of the State Duma party factions.
Indeed, there are several proposals.
Firstly, I want to say thank you: at the beginning of the year you issued an instruction to address the issue of giving the fighters of the people’s militia of the LPR and DPR, which has been fighting since May 2014, the status of combat veterans with all the corresponding social benefits. But there is another category of volunteers. And I have prepared a letter addressed to you, which I will give to you later: I would also like to ask you not to forget that some were not part of the people’s militia of the LPR and DPR but have fought since May 2014.
Thank you for the fact that you (and here I must say, only you) track and draw attention to a vexing problem: the demographic problem. All decisions that are made in the country in this area have always been your initiative. Because you understand perfectly well the role that preserving our people plays.
In this regard, our faction, our socialist party, the A Just Russia – Patriots – For the Truth, has several proposals.
First, I would like to ask you on behalf of a huge number of families with many children to think about whether to declare next year, 2024, the year of large families. The fact is that we need large families, when three children become the norm. Because even maternity capital now incentivizes the birth of the first child. And in this regard, our second proposal is to make a kind of maternity capital progression. That is, to leave the same amount that is now given for the birth of the first child, but give more for the second one, somewhere around a million, and a little more than a million for the third child. Because it is the third child in the family, as we understand it, that gives a boost to population growth.
And another request. The fact is, as it turns out, only 5,959 families in Russia have eight or more children: either biological or adopted. Less than six thousand families throughout Russia. I think that if, say, two minimum wages for one of the parents, if this form of one-time social assistance were given out, it would be fitting and useful. It is very good that you restored the title of Mother Heroine, the badge of Maternal Valour, but I think that material assistance would be very useful.
Another topic concerns the special military operation. People send parcels to their husbands, sons, brothers, acquaintances. I think it would be right for the federal budget to help the Russian Post by subsidising the shipping of one parcel a month weighing up to ten kilograms to each serviceman from relatives and friends, from anyone, so that there would be compensation for the Russian Post, because the fighters really want and wait for such news, such a parcel from home.
And another request also related to the special military operation. Now, when a soldier is wounded and is undergoing treatment, the relatives who come to visit him in the hospital, the cost of their trip to the place where he is being treated is paid for by the Defence Ministry. But this is about military personnel, and the volunteers who are fighting now have no such category. I have also prepared a letter for you and would like to ask you to consider it.
And in conclusion, recently, a month ago, I was in our new territories, I was in the Zaporozhye Region and in the Kherson Region. As you know, our Government has decided to increase tariffs for housing and utility services by nine percent from December 1. As soon as these regions are part of Russia, this applies to them. It is very difficult for them now; they are practically at the forefront. And I am asking you to consider the possibility of giving them a benefit for this year: to freeze the rates for housing and utility services at the level that they were before December 1. Because it is very difficult for them, and it would be right and fair to provide them with such assistance.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for your proposals. Let us elaborate on each of them.
Sergei Mironov: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Mironov Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 14, 2023, 18:55
Text version