Events
Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum
Vladimir Putin and Kassym-Jomart Tokayev took part, via videoconference, in the plenary session of the 19th Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum.
November 9, 2023
11:45
Astana
1 of 3
Plenary session of the 19th Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum. Photo by Natalia Gubernatorova, Moskovskiy Komsomolets
This year's forum takes place in Kostanay and focuses on agriculture as the foundation of a strong economy.
* * *
Address by the President of Russia at the plenary session
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
I am delighted to address the participants of the 19th Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum, which I am attending jointly with President Tokayev
.
It is important that representatives of more than 30 regions of Russia and Kazakhstan − government officials, lawmakers, representatives of ministries and agencies, businesses, academic community and civil society − have gathered in Kostanay for this event. These are the people who deal with the practical aspects of developing the entire scope of our relations in their work on a daily basis, be it in politics, the economy or humanitarian affairs.
It is largely thanks to your energetic and proactive efforts that cooperation between our countries’ regions continues to develop, involving new participants and becoming more practical. As of now, 76 Russian regions have established direct partner ties with regions in Kazakhstan.
See also
All news about the official visit to Kazakhstan
November 9, 2023
It is also important that interregional visits have become regular. This year, for example, very fruitful working trips, as far as I know, have been made by the heads of Yakutia and the Astrakhan and Chelyabinsk regions to various regions in Kazakhstan. Large Kazakh delegations took part in the Krasnoyarsk Economic Forum and the events held on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Buryatia.
We continue to develop and enlarge the substantive legal framework of regional cooperation, which comprises, in particular, over 60 agreements between our countries’ regional governments. As far as I know, a number of new agreements and memoranda, as well as commercial contracts worth in total about $100 million, have been prepared for signing based on the results of this forum.
It is a good example of the successful development of Russia-Kazakhstan economic ties. I would like to note in this connection that thanks to the active contribution of our regions, Russia’s trade with Kazakhstan increased by over 10 percent in 2022 and reached $28.2 billion according to our statistics, or $27 billion as the President of Kazakhstan said. In January to August 2023, our mutual trade increased by another 7 percent. At the same time, we are using national currencies for export-import transactions more actively.
Russia is one of the major investors in Kazakhstan’s economy, as we heard here earlier. The total volume of Russian investments is slightly lower, according to our statistics: my friend and colleague President Tokayev said that it was over $20 billion, and in our estimation, it is slightly over $17 billion. It is a good result and a good trend overall. Kazakhstan’s investments into Russia amount to $4.6 billion, according to our data. Some 6,000 companies with Russian capital operate in various regions of Kazakhstan, while the total cost of joint projects that are being implemented with Russian participation is $36.5 billion. It is an impressive figure for our economy.
Naturally, we are seeing that our mutual trade and mutual investments in agriculture are growing. So, it is logical that the current plenary session of the forum is devoted to a topic that is of big interest to us: Agriculture as the Foundation of a Strong Economy. I am pleased to note that you discuss various aspects of this issue in great detail and in a professional way, such as strengthening food security and introducing innovative agricultural technology.
I think that the President of Kazakhstan will agree that the development of bilateral cooperation in the agro-industrial sector is a priority both for the Russian and Kazakhstani economic policy. In fact, holding a specialised interregional forum devoted to agriculture is clear proof of this.
I would like to note that Russia is Kazakhstan’s key supplier of various products such as wheat (98 percent of imports), barley (98 percent), poultry (80–90 percent), sugar (up to 70 percent), and fermented milk products (60–70 percent).
Overall, bilateral turnover of agricultural products and foods grew by 22 percent and reached $4 billion in 2022; in the first seven months of this year, it increased by another 3 percent. Our country is ready to continue to provide the Kazakhstani market with an uninterrupted supply of these and many other crucial food products in accordance with the needs of our colleagues and friends in Kazakhstan.
It is important that the relevant Russian agencies and regional authorities along with their colleagues from Kazakhstan are taking steps towards integrating the information systems of veterinary and phytosanitary certification to ensure a complete traceability of goods shipped across the border, and to ease their delivery to the markets of both countries.
I also want to mention that our country helps Kazakhstani farmers by supplying the main types of fertilisers, as the President of Kazakhstan has just said. As we also mentioned, one of the largest in the CIS and even Europe phosphoric fertiliser production facilities, built with Russia’s assistance, operates in the Jambyl Region. Another similar chemical facility with a production capacity of up to 1 million tonnes of products is currently under construction.
In cooperation with the two countries’ regional authorities, much has been achieved in optimising the logistics of agricultural trade, removing infrastructure restrictions, and this work should certainly continue. In this context, I would like to note the great importance of successfully developing the North – South international transport logistics corridor, running from Russia, or even our partners and friends in Belarus, to the Indian Ocean coast. One of the corridor’s routes could surely run through the territory of Kazakhstan. As a matter of fact, it does run through the territory of Kazakhstan, and our common goal is to develop this corridor.
The Russian and Kazakhstani regions cooperate on large-scale joint projects focused on the production and supplies of high-quality agricultural equipment, as we said earlier. Rostselmash and St Petersburg Tractor Company, which have been mentioned, as well as other machine-building facilities, not only export their products but also localise the assembly of their products in Kazakhstan.
Russian regions make a substantial contribution to training professionals for the Kazakhstani agricultural industry. I am talking about enrolling students from Kazakhstan to our higher education institutions specialising in agriculture, as well as creating specialised education centres in the regions of Kazakhstan.
It is notable that the integration processes that are gathering momentum in the Eurasian Economic Union directly promote stronger interregional cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan in agriculture. The EAEU countries are working together to develop common commodity, including agricultural, markets and industrial and technological chains, and are also proactive in the spheres of import substitution and the digitisation of mutual trade.
The EAEU has reached the level of self-sufficiency in the majority of agricultural products. Our union firmly holds leading positions in the world in wheat production and exports. Incidentally, Russia has gathered a very good wheat harvest this year, our export potential will be maintained at 60 million tonnes, and we will undoubtedly keep the world leadership in the export of wheat and the sale of this important commodity on the global markets. The same can be said about potatoes and animal products, where our union is among the world’s top 10 suppliers of barley, corn, oil crops and frozen fish.
Thanks to mutual deliveries, the agricultural businesses of the five EAEU states harmoniously complement each other, which makes for the reliable supply of food not only to our countries but also to foreign markets. In light of our modern-day capabilities, which are growing, we are aware of our responsibility to our partners and colleagues in other countries, especially considering the trends we discussed today, including in demography, which the President of Kazakhstan has mentioned.
In conclusion, I would like to say again that interregional ties are playing a key role in Russia-Kazakhstan partnership. We will continue to encourage the regions’ desire to cooperate with each other and to look for new spheres of interaction, and we will certainly support our colleagues’ positive initiatives.
I would like to wish fruitful work and all the best to the participants and organisers of the forum. The next interregional forum will be held in Ufa, Russia, in 2024, and we certainly invite all of you to attend it.
Thank you.
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Agriculture
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Tokayev Kassym-Jomart
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2023, 11:45
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Russia-Kazakhstan talks in restricted format
November 9, 2023
12:15
Astana
With President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev before the Russia-Kazakhstan talks in restricted format. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
: President Putin, Russian friends and colleagues, I am very pleased to once again welcome you to our capital, Astana.
Today, when you arrived in Astana early in the morning, a crescent moon appeared in the sky, accompanied by very bright stars, which is a rare phenomenon, and I drew the attention of all those people who were present at the airport to welcome you today. I believe that this is a very good sign.
See also
Russia-Kazakhstan talks
November 9, 2023
You arrived in Kazakhstan ahead of the 10th anniversary of the Agreement [between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan] on Good Neighbourliness and Alliance in the 21st century. Let me remind you that it was signed on November 11, 2013, in Yekaterinburg. This is a comprehensive document that is an important legal foundation for bilateral cooperation. It also defines the outlook for strengthening our multifaceted ties.
Mr President, please accept my greetings on this date, and it is very good that your visit coincided with it. Of course, in general, as I already told you today, your visit has great political, and one might even say historical, significance.
Everyone knows that Kazakhstan and Russia are allies and strategic partners. We are united by strong bonds of friendship, common history and close spiritual bonds. On the eve of your visit, I gave an interview to the Izvestia newspaper, where I said that the future of our relations is very bright, just as the past of our relations was very rich. Therefore, we have preserved and multiplied our main wealth: fraternal feelings and good neighbourly relations between the two nations. I note with satisfaction that today our interaction is developing successfully.
Today, at the opening of the forum, we stated the exact figures of our growing trade. Over the past three years, it grew more than 30 percent, and fortunately this positive trend continues. In the first eight months of this year, bilateral trade amounted to $17 billion, which is a record indicator.
Industrial cooperation is developing dynamically. Here, we can see some interesting numbers: 143 industrial cooperation projects worth over $33 billion are being implemented; 140 of them are based in Kazakhstan.
Russia is an undisputed leader in terms of the number of enterprises with foreign capital in Kazakhstan. Over 20,000 Russian companies are registered in our country, and this is a very impressive number.
According to our estimates, direct Russian investment exceeds $20 billion. As far as I know, your estimate is about $17–18 billion. However, the difference is rather small, and both numbers correlate with one other. About $3.5 billion have been invested over the past two years.
Additional
All news about the official visit to Kazakhstan
November 9, 2023
Our estimates show that the volume of Kazakhstani investment has reached $6 billion, and we are delighted to note that this process is mutual.
Cooperation in the oil and gas sector continues to develop actively. Agreements on Russian oil transit to China and Russian gas transit to Uzbekistan via the territory of our country have elevated energy interaction to an entirely new level.
We have set objectives for further developing trans-border cooperation at the ongoing 19th Interregional Forum for Russia-Kazakhstan Cooperation in Kostanay. I am confident that the substantial package of agreements and business contracts will unlock the weighty potential of regions and entire sectors of our economies.
I would like to note the growing diplomatic presence of our countries and the creation of new diplomatic infrastructure. This year, the network of Kazakhstani missions expanded in Russia and now includes a consulate general in Yekaterinburg. Kazakhstan has opened consulates general in St Petersburg, Kazan, Astrakhan and Omsk, and they are operating successfully. There are plans to open a Russian consulate-general in Aktau soon. This has tremendous importance from all points of view.
New aspects of our diverse ties are emerging. We will sign important documents that will allow us to make great headway in finance, the power industry, healthcare, fitness, sport, and other fields.
All this highlights the wide-ranging bilateral agenda and our mutual striving to strengthen our strategic partnership. This is why I look into the future with optimism, given that both countries will continue to work in all areas under the stern gaze of our governments, and I believe that we should expect future achievements soon.
Thank you for your visit once again. I would like to give the floor to you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Mr President, friends, colleagues,
We are delighted to be in the capital of Kazakhstan today, to have an opportunity to exchange opinions about the current status of our relations, and to take a look into the future.
The strategic partnership and allied relations between our countries are steadily and successfully developing, which can be clearly seen from the figures.
We have just participated in a plenary session of the 19th Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum, and while we were on our way here, the President and I shared our views on this matter. This format is very good. People can work and talk without intermediaries, and this always brings visible and significant results. I am sure the same will be true this time as well, especially since the subject is very important. Everyone knows what agriculture is all about since food is the lifeblood of any society and any country.
All the more so since we have excellent potential in view of global developments. Our colleagues discussed this, and the President and I also mentioned it. I am not talking about the conflicts, but the demographic things that are happening, I mean our enormous agricultural potential. We have good opportunities to secure our interests and to help many our partners on the global markets, which is what we are doing. The issue is about leveraging the advantages of our cooperation to boost these capabilities in the future. This is what we will do.
Indeed, the day after tomorrow marks the 10th anniversary of the basic Treaty between Russia and Kazakhstan on Neighbourliness and Alliance in the 21st century which has provided a solid foundation for expanding our multifaceted friendly relations. I would like to emphasise this very aspect of our relations: friendly relations.
Today, following the talks, we will sign a joint statement which lays out further strategic objectives to promote Russian-Kazakhstani cooperation. We will also approve a joint action plan, which defines specific areas of cooperation for the next three years. In addition, a number of important documents covering a wide range of areas of bilateral ties have been prepared for signing.
I am in constant contact with the President. We have excellent relations, both personal and business, which is certainly good for our work. I am certain that this will continue into the future.
Both of us recently took part in the CIS summit in Bishkek. Soon, we will meet in Minsk at a meeting of the Collective Security Council. Before the end of the year, we will have another chance to communicate in St Petersburg during the EAEU summit and the traditional informal New Year’s Eve meeting of the CIS leaders.
As I mentioned earlier, Russia is clearly one of Kazakhstan’s leading trade and economic partners. I will not provide the figures again, which were mentioned just now. They are very impressive, and most importantly, they provide the groundwork for future development.
The operation of our intergovernmental commission is based on a comprehensive programme of cooperation between our countries for 2021–2025, which means that the necessary legal framework is in place.
It is worth mentioning the Russian Seasons in Kazakhstan as a significant factor in promoting our cultural and humanitarian ties. I would like to say a few words about it. This year, Days of Russia will be held in Kazakhstan; I believe you plan to start them on November 17.
As for education, which is another important element in the development of our relations, I would like to say that 61,000 citizens of Kazakhstan are studying at Russian universities, and the education of 30,400 of them is funded by the Russian federal budget. We do not regard this as a waste of money. On the contrary, this is creating a solid foundation for maintaining our relations at a high level and looking toward the future. It is our investment in our future. In the 2023–2024 academic year, the government quota will be increased by another 200 citizens to 700 students.
I would like to highlight the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan to establish an International Organisation for the Russian Language, which has entered the implementation stage. I am referring to the recent decisions adopted by the CIS leaders at their summit in Bishkek and the signing of the relevant interstate agreement. Mr President, we can and do appreciate the significance of that initiative, and we are grateful to you for it.
We highly value our states’ constructive interaction in international affairs, which is based on common approaches to issues of fundamental significance. We are closely coordinating our activities within the EAEU, the CSTO, the CIS, the UN and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the rotating chairmanship of which Kazakhstan assumed in July this year.
We are working successfully together within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, and in 2024 our countries will chair the main multilateral organisations: Russia will assume the chairmanship in BRICS and the CIS, while Kazakhstan will chair the CSTO. It goes without saying that we will support each other.
Kassym-Jomart Tokayev: Thank you, Mr President.
<…>
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Tokayev Kassym-Jomart
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2023, 12:15
Text versionEvents
Beginning of Russia-Kazakhstan talks in expanded format
November 9, 2023
13:30
Astana
Russia-Kazakhstan talks in expanded format.
President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
: Mr President,
I would like to once again cordially welcome you and all members of the Russian delegation to Astana.
Your official visit to Kazakhstan can be rightfully, without exaggeration, considered a historic occasion: it marks a new chapter in the strategic partnership with Russia. We have just had detailed talks on almost all issues of our cooperation, and we understand each other completely when it comes to our joint work.
There is a lot of work to be done, but, as I see it, we are committed to constructive work, and there is no doubt that the result of this work will be positive, as it has been in the past. In the past, there were issues demanding rapid solutions either at the government level or higher, between the heads of state, and they were found, of course.
See also
Russia-Kazakhstan talks
November 9, 2023
It is symbolic that this event, I mean your visit, is taking place on the eve of the tenth anniversary of signing the Treaty between Russia and Kazakhstan on Neighbourliness and Alliance in the 21st Century. Let me remind you that it was signed on November 11, 2013. This is a fundamental document, and the long-term principles of relations enshrined in it became a specific roadmap that is being actively implemented.
Today, bilateral cooperation is developing successfully in all areas in the spirit of strategic partnership and alliance. Your visit began with our speeches at the opening of the interregional forum. We acknowledged that this format of cooperation is effective and useful and, of course, we will continue our work in this direction.
We are allies and strategic partners. There are no fundamental issues or problems in our alliance or in our relations. Kazakhstan and Russia both understand clearly that the independent and sovereign choice of development paths does not inhibit but, on the contrary, makes equal and mutually beneficial partnership even more rewarding. You have spoken about this many times, and I thank you for your deep understanding of the situation.
The unshakable values of friendship, trust and neighbourliness are the legacy of our ancestors, who lived side by side on both sides of the border from time immemorial. And we ought to preserve these values and pass them on for generations to come. This is truly a value.
Additional
All news about the official visit to Kazakhstan
November 9, 2023
Thanks to our joint efforts, the border is actively working for the benefit of both countries’ economies. About 25 million ordinary Kazakhstanis and Russians living in border regions enjoy concrete benefits. And we can say with confidence that our time-tested bilateral relations will remain unshakable and free from any political bias. Of course, it is very important that not only the governments, but also the people of our countries fully understand the value of mutually beneficial cooperation based on the principles of strategic partnership and alliance.
We talked today about the active and fruitful development of trade and economic interaction and investment cooperation during the opening of the interregional forum. The numbers are truly impressive. According to our data, trade reached $27 billion, and about $20 billion came from Russia to the economy of Kazakhstan as direct investment, but Kazakhstan also managed to invest $6 billion in the Russian economy. That is, the process is mutually beneficial, reciprocal, and this is a cause for joy.
Ties are actively developing not only in the trade and economic spheres, but also in culture and education. Today you have mentioned the Russian Seasons, which means that cultural exchanges are developing successfully. All of this will monitored, and we will maintain these ties. Personally, as the head of state, I absolutely want to see multilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia continue to develop successfully.
Thank you for your attention.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, colleagues,
I would like to begin by saying words of gratitude to the President of Kazakhstan for inviting me and for providing the venue for today’s meeting to discuss in detail the full range of our relations.
We talk about Russia and Kazakhstan being allies, but I would like to emphasise that we are not just allies – at least that is how we see it in Russia – but the very closest of allies. It took us many years to shape these relations, and I am very pleased to note it and I would like to thank the President for keeping alive this trend and this tradition of strengthening our relations, which certainly benefit our peoples.
The economic cooperation numbers tell the tale. I will not go over them again now, since the President has just mentioned them, and we covered this during the forum of regions which provided a striking illustration of what is happening, as they say, on the ground, that is, in real life, and was the reason for our meeting today. But in this case, in the literal and figurative sense, we are talking about what is happening on the ground, because the forum focuses on agriculture which is one of the most important sectors of the economies of both Russia and Kazakhstan.
We in Russia take pride in what we have accomplished in agriculture over the past eight to ten years. From being a net importer of agricultural products, Russia has turned into a major exporter and tops the list of the world’s wheat exporters. I have said it before, and I will say it again – saying and repeating it is a delight – we will continue to have excellent capacity this year with 60 or maybe even more million tonnes of wheat to be exported to international food markets.
Our economic relations with Kazakhstan are not limited to the critical area of agriculture. Cooperation in high technology is the most important area of focus. We have good prospects and achievements in this sector, so, in this regard, education is of paramount importance, because only educated and well-trained people can address these priorities.
In this context, education is a real factor in economic growth. It is extremely important, and here mutual exchanges in education and science – not only the education of specialists in Russia – are very important and oriented to the future of our countries and peoples. There is room for improvement in this respect. I will not mention everything at this point but these are interesting, promising areas of our cooperation.
Good clusters exist or are taking shape in industrial production, notably in agricultural equipment manufacturing, mechanical engineering in general and the chemical industry that is linked to the entire production complex.
Of course, in a restricted format, we just now talked about financial cooperation in some detail. We are aware of all difficulties related to the current situation. Yet, I am confident that proceeding from our national priorities, we will always be able to resolve problems that are of obvious mutual national interest for us without violating any international commitments. In this way, we will also strengthen our sovereignty in the international arena.
This is very important for the development of any country. Just as education is vital for developing high technology, sovereignty in the development of a state is vital for the future of a nation – any nation. We believe this sovereignty will grow stronger despite the need to keep all of our international commitments as well. One does not interfere with the other. That said, national development, the interest of one’s own nation, should always be the priority and this is our bottom line in Russia.
We believe that also goes for our closest allies all over the world. I am not referring just to Kazakhstan. Naturally, Kazakhstan is our very closest ally as I have already said. This is how our relations have developed – primarily owing to the policy of the President of Kazakhstan – and we will act in the same vein.
In addition to education, everything related to the humanitarian area is creating a very good foundation for people-to-people relations – not only for supporting mutual interests but also for promoting mutual respect of our people and our nations. This attitude has developed over centuries, not just in the past few years or decades. For our part, we are doing all we can to maintain this trend.
Thank you very much for the invitation.
<…>
Geography
Kazakhstan
Persons
Tokayev Kassym-Jomart
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2023, 13:30
Text versionEvents
Media statements by presidents of Russia and Kazakhstan
Vladimir Putting and Kassym-Jomart Tokayev made statements for the media following the Russia-Kazakhstan talks.
November 9, 2023
14:45
Astana
1 of 6
Vladimir Putting and Kassym-Jomart Tokayev made statements for the media following the Russia-Kazakhstan talks. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev
: Mr President, colleagues!
Mr Putin, it is deeply symbolic that your visit to our country is taking place in the run-up to the 10th anniversary of the Treaty on Neighbourliness and Alliance in the 21st century. The amount of work we have done together during this period has brought the relations between our countries to a whole new level, and much of the credit for that goes to you as the President of the Russian Federation.
Russia is a strategic partner and ally of Kazakhstan. Relying on the unwavering values of common history, strong friendship, mutual respect and trust, we have built bilateral relations, which are a striking example of the realisation of mutual interests across many areas. I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm Kazakhstan’s commitment to our strategic course of continuing to strengthen multifaceted cooperation with Russia.
See also
Russia-Kazakhstan talks
November 9, 2023
Today’s talks with the President of Russia were held in a traditionally open and friendly atmosphere. During the meetings in the restricted and expanded formats, we discussed a wide array of bilateral issues and items on the international agenda. Given the vast potential for mutually beneficial cooperation, we reiterated our shared desire to expand political, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian ties.
We focused specifically on trade, economic and investment interaction, which has been steadily growing as of late. Russia is by far Kazakhstan’s largest trade and economic partner. Over the past three years, mutual trade has increased by over 30 percent. According to Kazakhstan’s statistics, trade reached a record $27 billion last year. The positive dynamics continued into this year with $17 billion for the first eight months of the year.
Overall, we have ample opportunity to further increase mutual trade. In this context, we have noted the significant intensification of ties between the business circles of the two countries.
Russian companies are among the five leading investors in Kazakhstan’s economy with a total volume of investment exceeding $20 billion. In the first half of this year alone, Russian investment in Kazakhstan’s economy exceeded $1 billion, which is 20 percent more than last year. In turn, the volume of Kazakhstani investment reached $6 billion. It is gratifying to know that this is a reciprocal process.
We discussed in detail prospects for mutually beneficial manufacturing cooperation. As of today, our pool of joint projects has been expanded to 143 with an overall investment value of over $33 billion. Our governments have been instructed to systematically support the quality implementation of these projects.
In addition, we discussed cooperation in energy and the implementation of large oil-and-gas projects. We consider the further development of the project on Russian gas distribution to the south and volume increases in Russian oil transit to China via Kazakhstan to be very important.
Additional
All news about the official visit to Kazakhstan
November 9, 2023
We noted the importance of ensuring sustainable functioning of the Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC). In this context, I expressed our gratitude to President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin. In other words, the CPC, the Caspian Pipeline Consortium is doing a good job.
We paid special attention to transport and transit and agreed to work on the coordinated development of transport corridors on the territory of our countries.
In this context, we will consistently develop the potential of such important projects as the North-South International Transport Corridor, the Trans-Caspian International Transport Route, and the Ayagoz-Bakhry railway, to name a few.
We agreed that to use these routes in full measure, we need to upgrade the existing infrastructure, simplify administrative procedures and resolve other logistics problems.
The governments were instructed to continue close cooperation in these areas taking into account the mutual interests of the two countries.
We emphasised the need to continue the practice of holding annual interregional forums, which have a good reputation. I would like to add that interregional cooperation accounts for two thirds of our trade.
Today, President Putin and I took part in the work of the 19th Interregional Cooperation Forum. It focused on agricultural development.
Last year, our trade in the agro-industrial sector increased by 24 percent to $3.6 billion. Trade continues to grow this year as well.
Our regions and business people signed a solid package of agreements at the forum. They suggested specific initiatives on implementing mutually beneficial projects.
 I am confident that the current forum will open a new page in the history of interregional cooperation and will impart a powerful impetus to the development of our economies.
During today’s talks, we signed a number of important documents to promote our partnership in healthcare, energy, agriculture and sports, to name a few. Proper implementation of these agreements will help improve living standards in both Kazakhstan and Russia.
We paid special attention to the further promotion of cultural and humanitarian ties. This comprehensive work covers the cross years of culture, cooperation in the arts, education and science, expansion of contacts between the creative intelligentsia of the two countries and preservation of our common historical heritage.
This year, Kazakhstan hosted educational workshops, art exhibitions, film screenings and theatre plays as part of the Russian Seasons project. All these events brought lively interest from the Kazakh audience.
We confirmed our mutual interest in expanding cooperation in education. The share of Kazakh students in the total number of foreigners studying in Russia is traditionally high. This reflects the educational potential and demand for Russian universities in Kazakhstan.
We reviewed the opportunities for the reciprocal opening of Kazakh and Russian university branches in our countries. I am confident these measures will promote the further rapprochement of friendly relations between our peoples.
Today, we also exchanged views on current regional and global issues. President Putin shared with us his opinion that is of great political and practical interest to Kazakhstan.
We discussed in detail prospects for and promotion of integration in Eurasia and emphasised the importance of coordinating efforts to ensure sustainable growth, stability and security in our region. We also noted mutual understanding on interaction in major international organisations and integration associations. We are grateful to Russia for supporting theConference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA) and our Chairmanship in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
We share the view that steady progress in our region meets the fundamental interests of our peoples. Kazakhstan firmly adheres to its international commitments and stands for the development of mutually beneficial relations with interested states.
The results of our talks today with the President of Russia confirmed our mutual striving for the all-round promotion of friendly, allied relations between Kazakhstan and Russia. As for our international commitments, they naturally apply to the Russian Federation as well. I am convinced that the agreements achieved will help us further deepen our bilateral strategic partnership.
Thank you for your attention. I would like to thank the leader of the Russian Federation again for his official visit to the Republic of Kazakhstan. In my opinion, it was a great success.
Thank you.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President.
Friends.
The President of Kazakhstan has offered quite a detailed overview of our relations in terms of their nature and level. And I could say, in general, that I agree with everything he said and share his views. We could just as well stop right here, because this is true, and there is not much I can add to this.
Nevertheless, I do have to say that today’s talks indeed took place in a business-like and constructive manner and were very effective.
We discussed the bilateral relations between our countries in great detail and heard presentations by top executives representing our ministries, agencies and major corporations on the key aspects of Russia-Kazakhstan cooperation.
It is worth noting that the Joint Statement we signed and the three-year Plan of Action we adopted set forth objectives that are truly ambitious in terms of further strengthening our comprehensive strategic partnership.
Intergovernmental and inter-agency documents signed here over these days will help deliver on this task by covering our cooperation in its multiple aspects and various sectors, including politics, security, economics, cultural and humanitarian affairs.
During the talks, we noted that bilateral trade increased by more than 10 percent in 2022 and reached the level as described by Mr President. This is a positive result.
Meanwhile, we have substantially increased the share of national currencies in our bilateral trade, with 75 percent of our transactions already carried out in rubles and tenge.
I would like to emphasise that Russia is one of the largest investors in Kazakhstan’s economy. As we have already said, our statistics may vary, but according to the data we have, Russia’s accumulated investment in Kazakhstan is equal to about $17 billion, while Kazakhstan’s statistics show $20 billion. I agree with the President of Kazakhstan that the actual figure falls within this range, which is a good result.
There are about 6,000 business entities with Russian capital in Kazakhstan, while joint projects involving Russia, taken together, are estimated to be worth $36.5 billion.
Bilateral cooperation in the energy sector is on the rise, as has already been said here. Most of Kazakhstan’s oil is transited to international markets via Russia, and Russian oil is shipped across Kazakhstan to China. In addition, our country imports coal from Kazakhstan, carries out mutual distribution of electricity and transits Kazakhstan’s coal to consumers.
We have also discussed this, and there are issues that require some coordination and clarification of the figures. We are ready to meet our Kazakhstani friends halfway and to meet their needs.
We maintain uninterrupted gas distribution to consumers in Uzbekistan, which is especially important during peak winter consumption. We are also aware of the growing Kazakhstani economy’s need for primary energy resources. The President and I are talking about this and are ready for long-term – I would like to emphasise this – long-term cooperation in the future. This is very important because it will ensure stability in the energy sector.
We also need to discuss the expansion of infrastructure capacity on both sides – it is also clear what should be done and how, how long it will take, and how much it will cost. We have always had very good cooperation in this area.
Last week, Russia and Kazakhstan signed a new bilateral agreement on strategic cooperation in the gas sector. The document creates a reliable legal framework for partnership between our countries in geological exploration and production of natural gas, as well as processing and transport.
Bilateral relations in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy are also expanding; there are joint ventures for uranium mining and enrichment.
I would also like to mention that many large Russian mining companies are working productively in Kazakhstan extracting coal, copper and other in-demand resources.
The two countries are implementing a number of major joint industrial cooperation projects such as producing polyvinyl chloride and other chemicals, mineral fertilisers, and truck components. Work is underway to increase the share of local manufacturers in the assembly of Lada cars in Kazakhstan.
I reaffirmed during today’s talks – the President and I have been talking about this a lot – that we are ready to increase this cooperation, create additional capacity in Kazakhstan, and transfer certain technologies and competencies.
The major Russian industrial exhibition – INNOPROM – took place in Astana in late September. Our achievements and innovation-related products were presented there, and we take pride in the fact that we have achieved these things.
I have said it publicly before, and I can say it again that we find this critically important. Our economy is growing, and this year growth will amount to nearly 3 percent – not as much as in Kazakhstan, of course, with its more than 5 percent – but still this is quite decent for today’s Russian economy and the Russian economy in general. Over the last two months we have seen 5.2 percent growth every month, which is around 3 percent annualised. Most importantly, though, the structure of the Russian economy is changing, which makes us happy.
We have a 3 percent increase in the energy sector, and refining operations account for 43 percent of the overall growth. That has never happened in Russia’s modern history, never. Maybe, something like that happened in the Soviet Union during industrialisation. We see real shifts [in the economy] going the right way. Current international circumstances encourage the Russian economy to revive previous competencies and acquire new ones. And we are doing a good job at it.
Of course, we will be happy to use existing best practices – to reiterate, this primarily includes the refining industry and science-intensive industries – in conjunction with our Kazakhstani friends. Without a doubt, events such as INNOPROM create the proper conditions and provide additional information for our partners.
Cooperation in the transport and logistics sectors is critically important to us. The volume of rail freight and passenger transport is steadily on the rise. We have discussed several times earlier today that great prospects are opening up in connection with the North-South international transport corridor from Russia and even from Belarus to the coast of the Indian Ocean. One of the routes passes through Kazakhstan.
It is important that in a collaborative effort with our Kazakh friends we have managed to keep and multiply our close cooperation in space exploration. The joint operation of the Baikonur Cosmodrome continues. We mentioned this earlier – and I would very much like our colleagues to support this – we would also like to expand our cooperation in this regard. This is not so much about launches, but about establishing cooperation to manufacture space equipment and spacecraft. This is something we need to think about and work on from both sides.
President Tokayev and I also talked about strengthening our military and military-technical cooperation. Both Russia and Kazakhstan are CSTO members, and Russia has gone to great lengths to help Kazakhstan train its military personnel and specialists at academies operated by the Russian Defence Ministry and other military and law enforcement agencies. We helped Kazakhstan launch the production and servicing of Russian military equipment on its territory by issuing the relevant licences.
Of course, region-to-region ties play one of the key roles in promoting the Russia-Kazakhstan partnership in all its aspects. Today, we attended the opening session of the 19th Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum which is taking place in Kostanay. I must say that this is a very good event since it brings together people who, as I have already said during the expanded meeting, are operating on the ground, both literally and figuratively. The figurative sense here is clear, since they are always operating on the ground in general, but this is also true literally since today’s forum focuses on agricultural cooperation, which means working together in the soil. This is extremely important work and a great platform for deepening our cooperation. In fact, even if I do not remember the exact percentages anymore, but in terms of cross-border cooperation this sector already accounts for a substantial share of our trade.
It goes without saying that we discussed cultural and humanitarian cooperation during the talks, including the progress in carrying out the initiative by the President of Kazakhstan to establish an International Organisation for the Russian Language for the purpose of promoting it around the world. This is yet another competitive advantage we have: speaking Russian in the post-Soviet space offers additional advantages in terms of facilitating contacts, but when there is no language linking various nations and states and enabling them and their people to talk to each other – this undermines communication. And if there are no such obstacles, and I do hope that we will do everything to make sure that this is the case, including by carrying out the initiative put forward by the President of Kazakhstan, this offers us a substantial competitive edge. This is completely obvious.
We signed a treaty establishing this organisation at the October CIS Summit in Bishkek. Together with its CIS partners, Russia is committed to making every effort to launch it as quickly as possible.
I would like to point out that this goes beyond the formalities I have just mentioned. This was in fact an initiative coming from the President of Kazakhstan. President Tokayev came up with this concept. One day, he approached me during an event and said: “Look, I have this idea, a proposal.” This came as a surprise for me. We did not prompt him in any way. It was the President of Kazakhstan who put forward this idea. Not only did this come as a pleasant surprise, but I also think that it was a very useful proposal for promoting our practical cooperation.
I would also like to note that 60,000 Kazakhstani students are enrolled in Russia, and this issue has also been mentioned. I know that President Tokayev supports the process of establishing subsidiaries of Russian universities in Kazakhstan. The President prioritises technical universities. All right, we will do our best to implement this project on the greatest possible scale.
It has also been noted that Kazakhstan has been successfully hosting the Russian Seasons since early 2023. In turn, we are ready to organise similar Kazakhstani events in Russia. I would like the President and all our colleagues to take note.
While reviewing international issues, we focused on our integration efforts, primarily within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union
, the Commonwealth of Independent States
, as well as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation
, currently chaired by Kazakhstan.
The President and I agreed to continue jointly facilitating the development of all these formats and to strengthen our alliance within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation
, due to be chaired by Kazakhstan next year.
We also discussed the coordination of our countries’ efforts at the UN. We will continue to jointly uphold the principles of the primacy of international law, non-interference in the domestic affairs of other states and the right to a free model of development.
In conclusion, I would like to note that the President and I will meet again in late November at the CSTO summit in Minsk. I have also extended an invitation to the President of Kazakhstan to visit St Petersburg in December and to take part in a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, as well as an informal meeting of EAEU and CIS leaders that has become a tradition.
Of course, I would like to express my satisfaction that the results of our joint work during the visit certainly facilitate and will facilitate the continued progress of our diverse bilateral relations for the benefit of our nations.
I would also like to thank the President of Kazakhstan and all our friends for this invitation and for the atmosphere created for our successful work today.
Thank you.
Geography
Kazakhstan
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Persons
Tokayev Kassym-Jomart
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 9, 2023, 14:45
Text version