Events
Meeting with families awarded the Order of Parental Glory
Vladimir Putin held a meeting, via videoconference, with families awarded the Order of Parental Glory on International Children’s Day.
June 1, 2023
15:55
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 7
Participants in the meeting with families awarded the Order of Parental Glory (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were large families from the Arkhangelsk, Kirov, Magadan, Novosibirsk, Smolensk and Chelyabinsk regions and the republics of Adygeya and Karachayevo-Circassia.
The Order of Parental Glory was established in 2008 by a Presidential Executive Order and is awarded to parents (adoptive parents) who are raising or have raised seven or more children, providing proper care for their health, education and physical, spiritual and moral development.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends.
I congratulate you on International Children’s Day. As usual, on this day we also celebrate large and close-knit families who have been awarded the Order of Parental Glory.
Such families enjoy particular respect in our country and society. You devote your whole lives to your children while also selflessly doing daily chores, which is not simple or easy. You are working hard to promote your children’s all-round advancement and to help them develop their skills and talents at various centres and groups.
It is also admirable that you also find time to help others and take part in the volunteer movement, which is a socially significant cause and also a towering spiritual and moral example to your own children. This is very important for their development as upright people and good, courageous, hard-working and compassionate citizens.
Families with many children are the living embodiment of our traditions of mutual support, generosity, care for the young and respect for the elderly, as well as our morals and family values, which we regard as absolute and unconditional, no matter how much some forces have been trying to erode or challenge them.
I am sure that support for motherhood, childhood and the family, especially large families with many children, is a vital mission for the state and evidence of its concern for the country’s future. We are working consistently to improve support measures and programmes.
I am referring, in part, to the indexation of maternity capital, the introduction of child allowances for low-income families, and many other benefits. Of course, today I would like to learn about your assessment of their implementation.
It is essential to proceed from the real needs of people and Russian families in the area of family support, measures to improve demographics, social security, the employment market, the economy, education and parenting, as well as when making additional decisions in all areas of state policy.
Therefore, I would like to repeat that it is extremely important for us to know your views so that other people in the same circumstances, people with large families, will really see that things are changing for the better, and of course, practical benefits of the operation of government agencies.
I would like to add in his connection that different regions still have different criteria for a large family. Nevertheless, this material and seemingly run-of-the-mill issue is of major importance to people’s lives. I have instructed the Government to establish a unified status for a large family at the federal level, and I would like to ask our colleagues to expedite this work.
Also, a large family certificate must be valid throughout the country, both in paper and digital form. This will help families, for example, to continue to use their benefits when moving from one region to another.
We need to increase the availability of flexible employment for parents with small children, as well as the availability of preferential mortgages, including for families with many children, and create conditions for young (student) families to combine studies with taking care of their children.
I would like to point out that the current system of social guarantees for families in Russia now includes the new but actually historical regions of Russia: the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions.
In conclusion, I would like to once again congratulate all children, parents, teachers and mentors on International Children’s Day and to wish them health, happiness and all the best.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I would like to close by following up on what a participant here said about her friends asking the infamous question, “What is the point of having so many children?”
You know, I tried to respond to this earlier, but here is what I would like to say in closing. When someone says these words and thinks along the lines of why have so many children, why have more children, or what is the point of all this, what do they mean by that? This question goes hand in hand with a sub-question which people often say out loud: “You should live for yourself.” Am I right? This is true. Right away, on a personal level, I have another question: “What does it mean to live for yourself?” Clearly, it means to enjoy life. But those who say so do not understand that children are the source of the greatest pleasure and happiness in life.
I want to congratulate you on knowing what real happiness is all about. And I want to wish you luck in all your endeavours and undertakings.
Happy Children’s Day.
All the best. I congratulate you on the state decorations as well.
I hope that the trip to Moscow will be pleasant and educational for all of you and will bring positive emotions to your families and children.
Happy holiday! All the best to you. I wish you luck. Goodbye.
Topics
Children
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2023, 15:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Head of the Circle of Kindness Foundation Archpriest Alexander Tkachenko
Vladimir Putin had a meeting with Archpriest Alexander Tkachenko, Chairman of the Board of the Circle of Kindness Foundation.
June 1, 2023
14:25
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 6
Head of the Circle of Kindness Foundation Archpriest Alexander Tkachenko.
The Circle of Kindness Foundation for supporting children with serious life-threating and chronic illnesses, including rare (orphan) diseases, was established by Presidential Executive Order No.16.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Father Alexander, the Circle of Kindness Foundation has been working since 2021. It has done a great deal to help children and families on the whole. You do a lot, as well as everyone working with you. The St Petersburg Children’s Hospice has been functioning for a long time, even longer than the Foundation.
Archpriest Alexander Tkachenko: Today the hospice is marking its 20th anniversary. You visited it on Christmas 2019, and your visit gave an important boost to develop palliative care as a separate branch of medicine.
Federal legislation was adopted and funding sources identified. Now palliative care is provided to people across the country.
If I may, I have brought postcards from the children at the hospice, who remember your visit and, of course, invite you again.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
Alexander Tkachenko: It was a very touching visit. Do you remember Artur, a boy who held out his hand to you and said: “High five”? He is alive, thank God, and goes to school – we have organised teaching for him, – and he sends his regards to you.
Vladimir Putin: My warmest greetings to Artur, and to all your patients, too.
Alexander Tkachenko: Thank you.
If you allow me, I would like to tell you about what the foundation does.
Our foundation has been a miracle for many parents. First, I would like to thank you on behalf of the parents whose children benefited from the foundation. You can see this book in front of you with photos of these children. It demonstrates the feats accomplished by the parents and how they beat the disease.
Vladimir Putin: It is thanks to the parents that it was established. We stepped up our efforts in this regard after one of these families managed to get a letter across to me.
Alexander Tkachenko: The Foundation has done a great deal over the past two and a half years. We have already helped 7,100 children, and are about to buy medicines for 16,000 children suffering from diseases requiring expensive care. On top of that, we procure medical devices, rehabilitation equipment, and pay for innovative surgery.
This effort has helped many children once again enjoy their childhood years. The fact that many of them could start school on September 1 was probably the most touching aspect. This would have been impossible without the medicines the foundation bought for them.
Whenever a new medicine that is proven to offer effective treatment is developed somewhere around the world, Russian children can get it, subject to a resolution by an expert council. We are happy to report to you that Russia is the world’s leading country in terms of the availability of medications against orphan diseases for Russian children. There is no other foundation like this anywhere in the world.
The foundation provides guaranteed support regardless of where people live or their social status. In this sense, it embodies the social justice to which people aspire.
Vladimir Putin: How have you managed to achieve this?
Alexander Tkachenko: Primarily, by holding regular meetings with parents and the patients. This is how we understand what they need. We also bring in the leading experts from the Ministry of Health who help us define the criteria for prescribing treatments, diagnosing diseases and assessing whether they have proven effectiveness. The expert council worked tirelessly to review all orphan diseases with available treatments.
Today, children from across Russia can benefit from these treatments. We already supply these medicines to the territories which have recently returned to the Russian Federation – there are 23 children there.
We devote considerable attention to training the workforce. A special training course for medical doctors was developed. Thanks to these efforts, the disease detection rate has increased and, most importantly, there is motivation to develop other healthcare programmes. In particular, a neonatal screening for 36 diseases, that is currently available everywhere, allows us to detect serious disorders literally within days of a child being born.
The foundation’s goal is to supply medication before severe symptoms develop. We can even supply unique drugs that are custom-made abroad and delivered to the clinic where the child patient is treated, within three weeks of the diagnosis. The drugs from the reserves in the Russian regions can be supplied within three days of starting the treatment. This is our main goal – to ensure that decisions are made fast.
In many cases, the database of all child patients and their personalised history help us to plan properly. Most importantly, the database is integrated into the Gosuslugi government services web portal. Parents can send an application via Gosuslugi and there is no red tape whatsoever. The application process takes only five minutes. Parents’ requests are immediately received by the respective region’s public healthcare authorities and the foundation.
The database notifies the parents of all application stages, from the regional officials’ decision to an expert council’s decision, and the signing of the agreement. During the year, it will also notify the parents of the delivery of the required medication and reserves so that the parents do not have to worry about enough medication in stock.
It is also important to note that one of the important aspects of the foundation’s work is building a transparent operation and social partnership. We meet with parents and patient associations on a regular basis. The foundation receives numerous inquiries, and in the past two years, we have responded to more than 7,000 public requests. We also gave almost a thousand interviews and comments for the media.
As a result, a survey conducted at the end of last year showed that the foundation occupies a leading position in the ranking of people’s trust in public institutions.
Vladimir Putin: They simply see the results.
Alexander Tkachenko: Yes, people see the results of our efforts. And most importantly, we help save lives: without the foundation, many children would not have been able to get help.
We have ambitious plans, the most important of which is to provide children with access to orphan drugs that will appear in the near future. We expect the release of several unique targeted therapy drugs.
Next, we plan to support innovative methods of treatment, in particular, in surgery. Russian doctors and medical research institutes now have several new solutions, and the foundation has already adopted them, in particular, in cardiac surgery.
Vladimir Putin: Are these domestic developments?
Alexander Tkachenko: Yes, they are. Three days ago, a unique operation was performed at the Turner Institute to correct severe congenital scoliosis.
Vladimir Putin: In St Petersburg?
Alexander Tkachenko: Yes, it is in St Petersburg.
We have brilliant professionals who can develop such operations, and the foundation pays for them.
Earlier you instructed the foundation to develop additional types and volumes of rehabilitation. The foundation is already purchasing rehabilitation equipment and will soon consider supporting additional rehabilitation after serious types of surgical treatment. We are working vigorously on a system-wide approach to rehabilitation with the Ministry of Healthcare. The foundation fulfils this task successfully, and most importantly, it saves children’s lives. Many parents are immensely grateful.
Vladimir Putin: You deserve the most sincere words of gratitude and more, you and everyone else engaged in this noble mission, for everything you do for families.
Thank you very much.
Topics
Children
Disabled individuals
Healthcare
Medicines
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2023, 14:25
Text versionEvents
Video address to participants in the Movement of the First festival
June 1, 2023
12:00
Video address to participants in the Movement of the First festival.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I am glad to welcome the participants in the Movement of the First festival, and above all to congratulate schoolchildren, parents, teachers and mentors on International Children’s Day.
The festival, just like the Movement of the First, is growing and developing, spreading all over the country. Today the main festival venues are open in 12 large cities, from our western borders to Sakhalin.
I am confident that the festival will be a bright and memorable event that will help you make new friends and gain useful, essential knowledge, engage in interesting creative projects of the Movement of the First, including during the upcoming summer holidays.
There are a lot of opportunities for this. You can become science volunteers or learn how to create robots, take part in the Zarnitsa game team in its modern, updated version, or join young naturalists – in a word, find an activity to your liking, which will reveal your abilities.
It is great that the movement – initiated by schoolchildren, by the way – supports in every possible way creative undertakings, the ability to make friends, work in a team, offer new directions and projects.
We can see – judging by your decision also – how the initiatives that once united your parents and older generations are getting a new start.
At the same time, you do not copy anything, but rather revive good, kind traditions at today’s level, including those that the Young Pioneer organisation had. And what is very important, you complement and enrich them with your own initiatives, which are needed right now.
More than one and a half million letters have been sent by movement participants to fighters in the special military operation zone. I know that our heroes are waiting for these letters, keeping them as their most valuable possession.
I also want to thank those who joined the Book Bridge campaign. Movement activists across the country are collecting books for children from the new regions, adding postcards with warm words to the parcels. I think that such correspondence will definitely develop into strong friendship.
I want to separately thank your mentors who help you to discover your strong points and reveal your best human qualities, find the right path in life.
Right now you are already trying to be useful, help others, feel involved in your country’s future, carry on the traditions of your parents and grandparents, and this is a very good thing. At the same time, you are pioneers who will have to discover the future of our country, the future of Russia.
Go for it, and we will always support you.
I wish you every success and bright victories.
Topics
Children
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 1, 2023, 12:00
Text version