Also, it is important – the way it is done here – to expand the use of biofuels in the housing and utilities sector.
Mortgage tools should be used more extensively in housing construction. Wooden houses are a good choice for relocating people from structurally deficient residential buildings – we discussed this today – as well as for rural health posts and other social facilities. I think we will go into that in more detail today.
Of course, the availability of the latest timber processing technologies and equipment is of paramount importance. Unfortunately, we remain heavily dependent on our foreign partners in this regard. You and I know well that this is a challenging task to handle, but we must, without a doubt, overcome this dependence.
Please highlight your efforts to create your own timber processing technology in your presentations. Let us know what has been done and what is being planned to increase the output of domestic equipment, and parts and components. I would also like you to report on your plans to expand industry-specific research in this area.
This is important if we want to upgrade our pulp and paper industry. The depth of processing must be enhanced, and new types of products for various sectors of the economy must be developed.
This wraps up my opening remarks. Let us get to work. Ms Viktoria Abramchenko is our next speaker. Please, the floor is yours.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Let us review some of the results because we are going to formulate the proposals made today in the final document.
Here is what I would like to emphasise.
First. Of course, measures to support the timber industry need to be implemented expeditiously, primarily to help solve its logistical problems. Our colleagues spoke about this, but in fact, everyone in the Government is well aware of it.
As a reminder, there are subsidies for the transportation of industrial products, as we have just discussed. Recently, the Government raised the upper limit to 500 million rubles per company. Mr Butorin suggested changing the mechanism a bit – let us think about that and work on it.
What matters here is the stability of conditions, so we need to keep the parameters of this support at the same level, but, if necessary, I ask the Government to adjust the process, and maybe to raise some of the subsidies. The least we should do is guarantee our colleagues who work in the industry that this support measure will be available for at least three years.
Next. As I have already said, companies in the Northwestern Federal District have suffered the most – the finance minister also mentioned this today – primarily from the actions of our so-called partners. And of course, we need to provide additional support to these enterprises – I would like to emphasise this, I agree with the finance minister here.
First of all, I ask the Government and Russian Railways to see what can be done to increase the shipment of goods by rail. We have just heard from the transport minister and the head of Russian Railways. That is what we need to focus on. Of course, we need to help everyone, but primarily those who find themselves in a difficult situation.
In this regard, I would like to ask you to provide subsidies for the maritime transport of timber products from the ports in northwestern Russia. Our colleagues said this would be related to the load on the Port of St Petersburg – that is right, I agree completely. We need to calculate the size of these subsidies and react accordingly.
Now, there are almost no relevant sea routes at present, due to the changes in logistics, so they need to be launched with state support, as industry specialists say, we need to get them rolling.
I have one more solution to offer, namely, to provide businesses – someone mentioned this today, and I agree with that proposal – with the option to make deferred forest tract lease payments based on unharvested timber volumes. Volumes have declined, but businesses continue to make their lease payments while there is no output. This is unfair; this injustice must be adjusted. Moreover, it is important to ensure that these liabilities can be written off in an amount that does not exceed the actual product transport costs, less the subsidies, meaning the 500 million in subsidies that have been set aside as of today.
Please be mindful of the fact that this is a temporary measure (we believe the situation will improve in one way or another) and it should address companies located in the beleaguered regions, primarily, northwestern Russia.
Our colleagues from Siberia and the Far Eastern Federal Districts are with us today. We will see how this will work. The Far East is closer to today's markets, so they do not have issues like this. It is important to analyse things and see how they work in order to support businesses while the logistics are being restructured. Should things in other regions change in this regard, we will respond accordingly.
Second, concerning the long-term and structural goals of the timber industry, of course, it is important to bolster domestic demand for the industry's output and increase the volume and availability of mortgages for the construction of standalone wooden houses. I think everyone would agree with that.