Events
Video address devoted to Border Guards Day
May 28, 2023
00:00
Video address devoted to Border Guards Day.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades,
Veterans of the Border Guard Service of Federal Security Service, 
I congratulate you on Border Guards Day.
Centuries-long and truly heroic traditions of courage and valour, noble devotion to the Fatherland and its people lie at the roots of this professional holiday.
The military service to defend the borders of our country has always been responsible and prestigious. Border guards have always stood sentinel over state interests and if the enemy attacked our country, they were the first to repel the onslaught and resolutely went into battle, as it happened in June 1941. We will never forget this unprecedented feat and the heroes of the Great Patriotic War.
You, the successors and heirs of the victors’ generation, of those who defeated Nazism, continue to discharge your duty with honour and dignity, solve challenging high-priority tasks to protect the state borders, carry out border control and protection of marine resources, make an important contribution to implementing international integration projects and development of cross-border cooperation, fight transnational crime and smuggling, and prevent diversions and terrorist attacks.
I want to thank you for your conscientious service and especially note all the border guards taking part in the special military operation, fighting the neo-Nazis. I am confident that you will continue to act selflessly, bravely and efficiently, and will competently and effectively use all available resources and means to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Russia and the security of our people.
Securing the border in close proximity to the field of operations is a separate and very important task. At the same time, it is vitally important to ensure fast movement of both military and civil vehicles and cargoes, including food, humanitarian aid, and construction materials on their way to new constituent entities of the Russian Federation – the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions. You must work in close cooperation with other units of the Federal Security Service, the Armed Forces and the National Guard of the Russian Federation, as well as regional government bodies.
I have great confidence in you, your professionalism and bravery, and know that you will do everything in your power to securely protect our Motherland’s borders from any threat.
I wish you all the best in your service, and health and happiness to your families.
Congratulations on Border Guards Day!
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 28, 2023, 00:00
Text version