Events
Gala evening marking the 100th anniversary of Russian civil aviation
A gala evening was hosted in the State Kremlin Palace to mark the 100th anniversary of Russian civil aviation, during which Vladimir Putin presented Russian Federation state decorations to industry representatives.
February 9, 2023
19:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 21
Gala evening marking the 100th anniversary of Russian civil aviation. Photo: Alexei Nikolskiy, RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends, veterans,
Today we are marking an important milestone: the 100th anniversary of Russian civil aviation.
I congratulate you, everyone present in this hall and your colleagues, everyone for whom working in this strategic industry has become not just a job, but a vocation and destiny.
Russian civil aviation has always been a symbol of technological progress. Its creation and rapid development served as a powerful boost for science and technology, industrial production and the education system.
See also
Meeting with representatives of the aviation industry
February 9, 2023
We can be justly proud of the glorious history of civil aviation and the civil air fleet. Thanks to the work and talent of outstanding designers such as Antonov, Tupolev, Ilyushin, Yakovlev and many others, a wide range of domestic aviation equipment was created and used to set many world records for speed, range, and duration of flights.
The courage of the civil aviation pilots who rescued a polar expedition aboard the Chelyuskin steamer from ice captivity in 1934 and were the first to be awarded the title of Hero of the Soviet Union will forever be remembered by Russians. And three years later, the first non-stop flight to the United States via the North Pole of the crew under the command of Valery Chkalov became a real feat.
Additional
Greetings to employees and veterans of Russian civil aviation
February 9, 2023
It is difficult to overestimate the contribution of the civil air fleet to the development of our country. Without it, it is impossible to imagine the achievements of industrialisation, the development of Siberia, the Far East, the Arctic and the Great Victory in 1945.
We will not forget the heroism of the People’s Defence Commissariat aviation groups, which were made up of civil aviation pilots. In the most difficult conditions, they supplied the front and partisan squads, besieged Leningrad, and the defenders of Sevastopol and Stalingrad with ammunition, medicine, and food, as well as evacuated the wounded under fire. And in the victorious May of 1945, the pilots of the 10th Guards Air Transport Division delivered the Act of Nazi Germany’s unconditional surrender to Vnukovo.
In the post-war decades, Aeroflot connected almost all major Soviet cities with foreign capitals. It began carrying millions of passengers, thereby enhancing the status of our country as one of the world’s leading aviation powers.
During the hard times of 1990s, civil aviation managed to overcome the difficulties and take its place in the new market economy. Step by step, it confidently propelled itself to a growth trajectory.
Friends,
Today, civil aviation retains its special, strategic importance. It plays a key role in the steady development of our enormous country and in ensuring connectivity between our regions. It facilitates the dynamic growth of many high-tech industries.
Today, civil aviation is 225 airports, including 80 international airports, more than a hundred airlines, and 18 institutions of higher and secondary vocational education, as well as other organisations. A total of almost 200,000 specialists work in these structures – in your structures – who professionally resolve the most complex and responsible tasks.
As for civil aviation’s achievements in the past decade, I would like to note the quality service during the Olympic and Paralympic Games, the World Cup and other landmark, global events. The Unified Air Traffic Management System has been upgraded and the regional centres streamlined – we talked about this earlier.
Even during the practically total suspension of international flights due to the coronavirus pandemic, domestic civil aviation maintained its position and ensured the continuity of its development. Thus, even in a difficult, uneasy 2022, Russian companies carried over 95 million passengers overall.
In conditions of unprecedented sanctions against our country, civil aviation was one of the first to be hit. However, it efficiently took on this challenge and has resolved the arising problems in a system-wide and consistent manner.
We just met with your colleagues today – the workers and veterans of civil aviation. We discussed with them, in part, measures of state support for the industry. In the past year alone, the federal budget allocated over 174 billion rubles for this purpose. This made it possible for companies to retain their employees, preserve their unique experience and competences, and focus on the development agenda.
Notably, 84 airfields have been upgraded and eight new regional and hub airports have been built over the past 20 years. New Russian aircraft are being designed and promising, logistically optimised routes are being developed.
This work will continue. Airports will be retrofitted. The number of direct flights and modern transport hubs will increase. Special attention will be paid to renewing the airline fleet.
As I noted earlier, we will address these challenges relying on domestic technology and the capacities of domestic manufacturers. We will create and develop a range of new and upgraded aircraft and localise production as much as possible.
In addition, to support airlines, a new mechanism for easy-term leasing of domestic aircraft is about to go live and will be funded from the National Welfare Fund. This will boost the efficiency of aircraft operation, which will ultimately improve availability of air transport.
We will continue to subsidise tickets for socially important destinations, as well as fares for pensioners, people with disabilities, students, and families with many children.
Also, budget funding to expand air ambulance service for residents of remote areas will more than double this year, which will raise the standard and availability of medical care.
To reiterate, our goal is to make the industry competitive, modern, and responsive to current demands and national development goals.
I am confident that the people working in the industry will make every effort to effectively address the challenges they are facing. We are well aware of the fact that steady operation of the industry relies primarily on honest work and coordinated efforts of pilots, engineers and air traffic controllers, as well as flight attendants and many other industry professionals.
I would like to thank everyone working in the field of civil aviation for their competence and reliability and for acting in an organised, efficient and professional manner in all, sometimes even emergency, situations.
Warm words of gratitude are reserved for veterans of the civil aviation industry, people who devoted their lives to their career of choice and worked honestly and responsibly for the good of the Motherland, and who honoured and built on the industry’s traditions.
Once again, happy anniversary and happy holiday.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Once again, congratulations to all of you.
You can see how many anniversaries there are: now we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the industry as a whole, and then the 100th anniversary of Aeroflot. One of the award winners [Oleg Zaika – Senior Pilot Instructor, S7 Airlines] just said that soon he will mark 100 years of his family’s flight experience [of Zaika's aviation dynasty], which, of course, is also an outstanding achievement. I think that the industry should also celebrate such events, and this will certainly be done.
He also said that they would envy us. They already envy us, otherwise they would not bother us – that is the whole point. But let them practice, and we will only strengthen ourselves inside and out, also thanks to your work.
Thank you very much.
Congratulations on the 100th anniversary of civil aviation!
Good luck!
Topics
State decorations
Transport
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 9, 2023, 19:50
Text versionEvents
Meeting with ASI Head Svetlana Chupsheva
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with General Director of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Svetlana Chupsheva at the Kremlin.
February 9, 2023
22:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 3
At a meeting with General Director of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Svetlana Chupsheva.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Please, the floor is yours.
General Director of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Svetlana Chupsheva
: Mr President, you said today, and we all agree, that Russia is the best country in the world. I would like to talk about several tourism projects that we have implemented.
We launched a competition among entrepreneurs who deal with tourist routes for the most impressive routes. Here we were supported by Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko, who headed the organising committee of this project.
Surprisingly, we received about 190 entries from almost half of the regions of our country. Our experts were the best of those who deal with the tourism industry and destinations. There were tour operators and scientists. Together with the applicants, we upgraded these routes from the point of view of the target audience. These are routes about how to get to know your country, get to know a region, its culture and traditions.
See also
Meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board
February 9, 2023
I want to give you a guide. It includes the top 30 routes that have been selected. The routes are already included in the tourist routes of our country and supported by the Government of Russia. These are Karelia, Baikal, the Urals, and Dagestan. You can choose any of them. You will not regret it; you will be very impressed.
Vladimir Putin: I have been almost everywhere.
Svetlana Chupsheva: We learn about beautiful places, there are a lot of attractive sites.
And the most important thing is that these are young entrepreneurs, young teams. For example, the Baikalika team offers tours to Lake Baikal, rafting on an ice floe along the river – amazing experiences.
(Ms Chupsheva also spoke about the tourist route projects for schoolchildren and the project Tourist Passport for Schoolchildren.)
I would also like to talk about a very important project that we are implementing with the Ministry of Industry called Open Industry. For the first time, 400 enterprises opened tours for adult tourists, schoolchildren and students. They are quite popular.
Last year, the Sayano-Shushenskaya hydroelectric power station, the Vostochny Space Launch Centre, and the facilities of Gazprom, SIBUR, Nornickel, and the Chelyabinsk Pipe Rolling Plant for the first time opened their doors for tourists. About 900,000 people have already taken these routes and tours, including young professionals and students.
And it is very important that there is demand from consumers. The Ministry of Industry is our strong partner. This year we plan to get about 300 more enterprises involved in this project.
Vladimir Putin: Do you work together with the Government and the regions?
Svetlana Chupsheva: Of course, regions and governors are also involved.
Vladimir Putin: So, they help you.
Svetlana Chupsheva: They develop routes together with tour operators. Educational institutions, schools that conduct extracurricular tours along these routes are getting involved.
Vladimir Putin: I said that I have been everywhere, but now I am looking at this book and I see that I have not been everywhere yet.
Svetlana Chupsheva: There you are! We also discovered a lot of new places for ourselves. We had inspection tours, that is, our experts went to each route, advised entrepreneurs, and finalised these routes. It is very important that on these routes you definitely get very good service, make the best memories, and have a great time with those who visit these routes with you.
Vladimir Putin: I have no doubt. Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Social services
Tourism
Persons
Chupsheva Svetlana
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 9, 2023, 22:05
Text versionEvents
Meeting with representatives of the aviation industry
On the 100th anniversary of domestic civil aviation, Vladimir Putin met with representatives of the aviation industry. A ceremony to open new civil aviation facilities, in which the President took part via videoconference, was timed to coincide with this anniversary.
February 9, 2023
19:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 14
Meeting with representatives of the aviation industry.
Excerpts from transcript of meeting with aviation industry representatives
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
See also
Greetings to employees and veterans of Russian civil aviation
February 9, 2023
We are meeting on the 100th anniversary of Russian civil aviation. I would like to sincerely congratulate you, all your colleagues, veterans and those who are just joining the industry, on such a significant milestone in the development of Russian domestic aviation, in this case civil aviation.
Today we have many important events, such as the completion of an air terminal in Novosibirsk and renovation of the airport in Novy Urengoi. We will also discuss the upgrade of the Unified Air Traffic Management System.
I want to thank everyone who took part in carrying out these projects which are important for Russia. Investors, managers, designers and builders have done everything necessary to implement them successfully.
This means that the number of passengers the renovated airports can serve will increase significantly, the geography of flights and route networks will expand, passenger service and safety will reach a new level, the economy and the social sphere of the regions I have just mentioned will get an extra boost, and most importantly, the lives of millions of people will become more comfortable.
I would like to note separately the upgrade of the Unified Air Traffic Management System. This work was carried out under the relevant federal targeted programme, and the Unified System’s enlarged regional centres will increase Russia’s airspace capacity and improve flight safety.
Let us give the floor to head of the Russian transport industry Vitaly Savelyev and then turn to the regions.
Please, Mr Savelyev.
Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
: Mr President,
First of all, on behalf of all civil aviation employees and on my own behalf, allow me to thank you for the difficult decision that you made amid the sanctions, that is, to retain aircraft in Russia.
Vladimir Putin: It was you who retained them, and I merely agreed.
Vitaly Savelyev: I agree with this correction, but nothing would have come of it without you. Thanks to all this, we saved the civil aviation sector and continued to work stably.
In this hall today we see civil aviation representatives: our pilots – Heroes of Russia, flight attendants, managers and employees of aviation enterprises and airports, representatives of education institutions who train our staff for their subsequent work in the aviation sector.
What would I like to say? I would like to remind everyone that Russia has been and remains a mighty and great aviation power. We recall vividly how Aeroflot carried 139 million passengers in 1990, and it was rated by Guinness World Records as the top air carrier in this respect. Later, this country fell apart, and Aeroflot also disintegrated into 400 tiny companies. In 1994, Aeroflot was carrying just three million passengers annually, with all remaining companies carrying 33 million. This came as a sharp decline, compared to the 139 million mark. State regulation of civil aviation allowed you and us to virtually restore the operation of the entire sector.
Today, we will look at new facilities. Each year, we open over ten new infrastructure facilities, and companies also emerge. On behalf of all pilots and our personnel, I would like to thank you for the unprecedented assistance that we received last year. I am talking about the impressive and unprecedented 174.2 billion ruble subsidies. Of course, this allowed us to accomplish a lot and to fulfil the tasks that you had set us.
I cannot help but specifically mention Pobeda, our low-cost air carrier. If it were not for your personal involvement and all that legislation that we adopted for this purpose, it would have failed to get off the ground. I would like to tell you that it has been operating successfully for over eight years. Indeed, Pobeda has achieved unique and outstanding results. Since early 2014, Pobeda has carried 65 million people, including almost six million passengers, nearly 10 percent, who had never flown before.
I am also referring to Pobeda’s low rates. Pobeda is operating in difficult conditions, including the pandemic and the current period of sanctions. It is working virtually in the black and posting profits. In 2022, it carried over 11 million people and became the third-largest national air carrier.
I would like to tell you that we are eagerly expecting our MC-21 and Sukhoi Superjet aircraft from our aviation industry. As you know, we are expecting these aircraft. Along with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, we are expecting more than 1,000 Russian-made aircraft by 2030, and we will acquire them. I am confident that we will be able to implement this project through joint efforts.
Mr President, on behalf of all our employees and the entire civil aviation sector, I would like to assure you that all tasks and goals that you have set us will be achieved.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Let's get an update on the Unified Air Traffic Management System as it applies to the regions and the efforts to create regional centres.
Please, Mr Bobylev.
CEO of the State Air Traffic Management Corporation Dmitry Bobylev: Good afternoon, Mr President.
The State Air Traffic Management Corporation ensures safe, regular and cost-effective flights in the Russian Federation.
As you said earlier, the programme for creating regional centres of the Unified Air Traffic Management System was completed in 2022 with 14 centres currently providing safe air traffic services from Kamchatka to Kaliningrad, including two ocean sectors, Magadan and northwest Russia.
The centres are equipped exclusively with the latest Russian-made equipment, including automated air traffic control systems manufactured by the Almaz-Antey concern which meet the best international standards, no question.
The implementation of the programme has significantly increased the capacity of our airspace, cut operating costs for air navigation services and improved the transit potential in Russia’s airspace.
The sanctions imposed by unfriendly states have significantly lowered the amount of foreign air traffic. Under these circumstances and in order to ensure uninterrupted business for the corporation, the Government has allocated a subsidy from the federal budget of the Reserve Fund in the amount of 17.9 billion rubles.
On behalf of the state corporation’s thousands-strong staff, I would like to thank you, Mr President, for the financial support provided to the company, which allowed us to ensure steady operation, to pay salaries on time and to meet our social commitments. The enterprise stands ready to continue to fulfil the tasks assigned by the state.
Mr President, I congratulate you, our dear retired employees and colleagues on a wonderful day, the 100th anniversary of domestic civil aviation.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: For my part, I would like to congratulate and thank everyone who took part in the implementation of the projects you have just mentioned.
I want to stress that we will continue to develop airport, transport and navigation infrastructure of Russia, build modern airports and renovate existing ones. These are, of course, large government plans that are in full accordance with our national development goals.
By the end of this year, 18 airports should be renovated, and another 16 next year. Significant funding is allocated from the federal budget for these purposes. In 2023, 40 billion rubles is allocated for the renovation of 18 airfields, and 35.5 billion rubles for the renovation of 16 more in 2024.
Upgrading the airport network is a good boost to developing the regions and Russia in general. This means a more convenient life for people as it provides for easier movement across our enormous country. This is being done for people to travel more conveniently and cover this enormous space easier from the economic point of view.
I would like to once again thank everyone for your work and wish all the best and success to the employees in the industry. Thank you very much – including everyone who is in touch with us today.
What else would I also like to say? What would I like to elaborate on? The anniversary of civil aviation, as I said at the beginning, is not just an industry-wide event, it is an event of national importance.
Today, civil aviation, which holds a special backbone place in the national economy, employs almost 200,000 qualified specialists: a huge team. It is these people, you, colleagues, who are present here, and those who are not – it would have been hard to gather 200,000 here in one place – they are the foundation of the industry and, without exaggeration, the pride of the industry. Considering its importance, the government pays special attention to its support.
In total, 84 airports have been renovated over the past 20 years, and eight new regional and hub airports have been built. Ground navigation and engineering infrastructure is being actively updated. Airport terminals are also becoming more friendly and comfortable for passengers. A new logistics infrastructure is being developed and created.
Small aircraft should be taken to a new level as well. Mr Savelyev and I have engaged in this effort regularly for many years now. I hope passengers have started to feel it. At least, the number of local airlines in the Far Eastern Federal District is on the rise.
Undoubtedly, when addressing these issues, we will rely on our own capabilities and domestic producers. Our colleagues mentioned earlier that we are expecting the industry to come up in a timely manner with the fully Russian-made MC-21 and the Sukhoi Superjet, Il-114, Tu-214, the Baikal light multi-purpose aircraft, as well as the Ka-62, Mi-38 and Ansat helicopters. Ansat is widely used already, and the Mi-38, I hope, will be in service soon. It has good speed and capacity. A modern aircraft overall.
A new mechanism for low-cost leasing of domestic aircraft is being launched with funds from the National Welfare Fund which will ensure economic efficiency and, in turn, will keep airfares low.
Importantly, our manufacturers will need to ensure high quality in their work in order for us to be able to implement our ambitious plans to re-equip the domestic airlines’ fleets. I just mentioned this, but I want to say it again: this is a critically important part of our joint work. I have no doubts whatsoever that our plans will be fulfilled in a timely manner.
In turn, the state will continue to provide the industry with the necessary support and will push to make sure that our civil aviation is developing steadily. It is a complex but exciting industry with lots of promise which has ties with many manufacturing industries. This is, in the truest sense of the word, a high-tech sphere of activity.
Any airline and any airport is a complex operation. Your employees should work as a single, well-coordinated team. It has been like this so far, and I hope it will remain so as we move on. I have no doubt and I am sure that civil aviation workers will continue to fulfil their assignments responsibly.
Mr Savelyev, if there is anything we need to discuss or talk about, let’s do it. Please go ahead.
Vitaly Savelyev: Mr President, if I may, my colleagues are ready to ask some questions.
Vladimir Putin: Aviation is a complicated industry and requires highly professional knowledge. I hope you will be lenient and not ask me very difficult or professional questions. Address your professional questions to Mr Savelyev. He has studied this industry inside and out and is a real specialist. We have known each other for a long time, since our work in St Petersburg, but he has really become a specialist over the years. Now I am ready to talk with you on general issues.
Go ahead, please.
Former ALROSA Airlines pilot Andrei Lamanov: For me, civil aviation is not just my favourite job and profession. It is also my life, my family and friends. I talk with my veteran friends and they asked me to be sure to tell you that they fully understand the need for the special military operation and support you.
We also see that the state provides serious support for civil aviation. Are you planning to continue supporting airports and airlines? In principle, I heard your answer.
Vladimir Putin: Of course. In today’s conditions, we are simply compelled to do this. We cannot just keep the industry as it is and settle for small steps like maintaining things. We must ensure the development of civil aviation and we will do this.
Yes, top managers in the industry have done a professional job. They worked out their proposals and calculated everything. Mr Savelyev has already mentioned the level of support, but in the past eighteen months when we first faced the pandemic and then the events that evoked the need for the special military operation, the federal government allocated 229 billion rubles for the industry, if I am correct. This year, over 50 billion rubles will be earmarked for this purpose. So, funds will be allocated based on the realities we live in today.
As for support for the special military operation, I have talked about this many times. First, I would like to thank you for this – it is very important.
Second, I would like to repeat that we did not start any combat action – we are trying to end it. These combat actions were started by nationalists in Ukraine and those who supported them in 2014 when the state coup was staged – everything began with that. The events in Crimea and Donbass followed.
Since 2014, in violation of all the agreements reached, all the commitments undertaken, the regions of Donbass were basically subjected to a blockade. Heavy military equipment was used against them and large military operations were carried out. In other words, they started a war then that lasted eight years and was aimed at exterminating people who live there and feel vitally connected to Russia, Russian culture and the Russian language. How long should all this be tolerated? This is the root of the problem.
As for the difficulties faced by some manufacturing industries, yes, this was inevitable. But I think for many people – for those who were and are trying to create problems for us, it was surprising to see how effectively we countered the threats created for us in the economy and in some manufacturing industries. It appears that our financial system is fully functional, all manufacturing industries and services are operating – they are working rhythmically, without disruptions.
Moreover, international institutions had to admit that Russia had not only fended off the expected shocks – that is, a reduction in the scale of production, the level of the labour market and its condition, but we and the international institutions actually expect some growth across all indicators this year, general growth in the Russian economy. This means we have overcome – I hope – the most complicated stages of overcoming the obstacles that are being put in our way, and we will be moving forward.
In this context, transport in general and aviation in particular are certainly playing a very important role in national development. We have supported and will continue to support it. One of the most important principles, not the most important, but a very important principle is that air transportation must rely on domestic products, domestically made equipment.
I will not go over all our conversations with Mr Savelyev over the years now. We have known each other for a long time, but I will reveal a little – we were having disagreements with him, serious disagreements. I always said and Mr Savelyev won’t let me lie, that it was necessary to pay more attention to the purchase of domestic equipment. If we had done this in previous years, it would probably have been easier now. That is, we are going through everything at once.
Mr Savelyev made a voluntary decision – he decided and left everything with us. And he did the right thing because if they behave so badly with us, then to live with wolves, we have to howl like wolves. He maintained the industry, the fleet and the traffic volumes – it has even started growing again. Importantly, we are not being hostile to anyone, we are ready to pay, and that's it, but we simply cannot allow the industry to collapse.
However, we must place our stake on domestic aircraft while achieving quality in all indicators: noise, fuel consumption – everything. I won’t list everything now. You know this better than me. It is necessary to ensure quality and competition and take these products to international markets. Maybe we will talk about this later.
We can do this and we will certainly do it. Of course, we will support the industry – there is no other way. This is what we will do.
<…>
General Director of Aeroflot – Russian Airlines Sergei Alexandrovsky: Mr President,
Sergei Alexandrovsky, Aeroflot CEO.
Thank you again for the state support and your personal attention to civil aviation. Thanks to these support measures, we managed to keep airfares at an affordable level in 2022, which is very important for transport accessibility and the mobility of the population inside the country.
I wanted to ask you the following question: what priorities do you see for Aeroflot, the national carrier?
Vladimir Putin: Mr Alexandrovsky, you know all this yourself. Mr Savelyev sets these directions as does the Prime Minister. The main priority is to ensure growth in passenger traffic volumes, and guarantee safety in the industry. Maybe, safety should even come first.
Of course, it is necessary to develop the regional network and, as I said recently, aircraft orders must be primarily tailored to the potential of domestic producers.
How many orders have you placed? 300?
Sergei Alexandrovsky: 339.
Vladimir Putin: This is a good, stable order and it will be the right load. You and I understand that with such a solid order, without a big production run, it is impossible to ensure cost effectiveness, a cost that is acceptable for the economy or for a given company.
What was the problem before? Why did Mr Savelyev and I argue? Because if there is no big order for a domestic company, the cost will always be high. It will be individual custom production, as it were. But with a big order, the cost goes down and the final price goes down. In this case we are talking about a complicated product, an aircraft. A good, large order will certainly support the manufacturer of domestic aviation technology.
To sum up, the priorities are clear, and now the main thing is to follow through. It seems to me you are doing fine, and I am sure this will be the case in the future, too. I can only wish you success.
Sergei Alexandrovsky: We will follow through on everything and work everything out.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I would like to congratulate you once again on your centenary and wish you all the best.
Mr Alexandrovsky asked me about goals and priorities. As for the economic component, these are the things of everyday life. But there are also other issues. This, of course, includes safety and the quality of service – in the good sense of this word. The quality of working with people, respect for passengers, respect for people depend on all members of the crew, on everyone – from flight crew to airport services, ground services. I would like to ask you to always keep this in mind.
I know that the level of your work, your work culture in the broadest sense of the word is at a high level, and I would like to ask you to hold the bar high.
As for safety, it is always necessary to make decisions in favour of safety. You know, it’s the same as on the road – better safe than sorry. Safety must always come first. I remember, this has happened to me more than once, but it was on an airplane. A bird was sucked into an engine on a twin-engine aircraft and the engine went down. We asked the captain what he could do about it. He said, “We’ll make it.” I asked, “Maybe it’s better to turn around and land?” Eventually, we landed at an intermediate airport. Decisions like this should always be made in favour of safety.
Once on a helicopter, there was no visibility at all but we badly needed to get to our destination point. I said, “Let’s try to make it.” I was already the President at that time. The captain came out and said: “I am the captain of this aircraft. I make the decisions, and I won’t fly.” He turned and went back to the cockpit.
This is very important. You are in charge of not only your own life but the lives of dozens of people. This is an interesting, responsible and very important job not only economically but also politically because the connectivity of territories is important for strengthening statehood and for state-building, without exaggeration or excessive pathos. I congratulate you and wish you all the best. Goodbye for now!
Vitaly Savelyev: Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for this warm and sincere conversation, I think, from all of us.
I would like to use this opportunity to present you with this book that was published for the centenary of civil aviation. This is an advance copy. It has historical photos showing what stages aviation has passed through over these hundred years. I would like to give it to you, if I may.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Geography
Novosibirsk Region
Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area
Topics
Regions
Transport
Persons
Artyukhov Dmitry
Savelyev Vitaly
Travnikov Andrei
Trotsenko Roman
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 9, 2023, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
Vladimir Putin and Vitaly Savelyev held a working meeting at the Kremlin.
February 9, 2023
22:55
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev.
The Minister of Transport told the President about the performance of the national transport sector in 2022, including the adopted anti-sanctions measures. They also discussed the current goals of the industry, in part, the development of the auto industry and railway transport and the port infrastructure, while devoting special attention to aviation.
***
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I am listening, Mr Savelyev.
Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
: Mr President, I would like to report on the Ministry of Transport’s performance.
In 2022, despite the transport blockade imposed on us by our “partners,” as you call them, the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation has fulfilled its goals on building up the infrastructure and passenger volumes. I would like to report on this.
See also
Meeting with representatives of the aviation industry
February 9, 2023
Gala evening marking the 100th anniversary of Russian civil aviation
February 9, 2023
Record budget spending figures are unique for us because this is the first time we spent as much as 2.58 trillion rubles. This never happened before. I will show you these figures on the graph, if I may. For instance, 15 years ago, in 2007 a mere 340 billion was allocated and 87 percent of it was spent; in 2020, we spent 99 percent of the budget – 1.21 trillion; in 2021, the figures were 1.69 trillion and 99.4 percent.
This year, we set a record on spending the budgeted allocations – 99.91 percent. We did not use one billion rubles.
Vladimir Putin: Did you return it to the budget?
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes, we did, but these figures are still very high.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, of course.
Vitaly Savelyev: They are record figures.
What would I like to note? In the past 15 years, funding has increased six times over with your support, which affects the development rate of the entire transport infrastructure.
Since 2020, funding has increased by 69 percent. Our funding has almost doubled. These are enormous sums, and our task is to spend them.
(Points to the slide). I would simply like to show you some things. This is Kaluga’s northern by-pass. If you remember, you either opened these facilities or took part in a construction ceremony. Since 2019, 14.5 billion rubles were spent under the Safe and Quality Roads national project: 21 kilometres, the last 0.7 kilometres, ten bridges and bridge crossings.
These are the figures bearing on the budget.
Vladimir Putin: No shaking at the joints?
Vitaly Savelyev: Nobody seems to complain. Everything is all right.
I would like to present a brief report on various types of transport.
This slide shows the road sector. Today, we have 1,566,000 kilometres of roads – 64,500 kilometres of federal roads, almost 1 million kilometres of local roads, and 503,000 kilometres of regional roads. This is a lot.
(Points to information slide.) Here, we opened the Arkhangelsky cable-stayed bridge across the river; you attended, if you remember.
Vladimir Putin: Across the Sheksna?
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes, across the Sheksna.
Traffic is opened on the Moscow-Nizhny Novgorod-Kazan motorway. We will complete it with the early funding. We were working on these facilities here.
It is also important to mention the amount of funding for roads. This is also enormous support for the entire industry and for roads specifically. We spend 3.2 trillion rubles a year on roads, of which 1.7 trillion comes from regional and local budgets, and 1.5 trillion from the federal budget. And look at the increase; there was an almost 100 percent increase from 2018 to 2022. This is a huge growth. So, we will be…
Vladimir Putin: From 1.6 to 3.2 trillion rubles.
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes, these are huge amounts. Mr President, thank you for the support, because spending on this scale naturally produces extensive, tangible results.
As for civil aviation, I can only tell you what has not been mentioned. Overall, we have 1,293 airplanes. Minus cargo planes, this makes 1,163 passenger planes. We have enough aircraft for the foreseeable future.
Today, 53 airlines serve the Russian Federation. Fourteen carriers fly to 22 countries from Russia; and airlines from 27 countries fly here.
The support for the industry that we received thanks to you totaled 174.2 billion rubles. This is also a lot of funding. It enabled us to stabilise companies, retain their teams and improve airports. With your support, we even funded a closed airport in the south. This was important. All these funds allow us to work steadily in these conditions, regardless of everything else.
I would like to mention something that is noted here. This required very hard work over several years, but now all of our airlines have converted to domestic software. We have been working on this since October, and it will be further refined in the normal course of our work.
Vladimir Putin: This was one of the main goals, wasn’t it?
Vitaly Savelyev: It was, and everything was done on schedule. There were no real problems.
I think you know everything about railway transport already.
(Points to information materials.) We put these sites in operation last year. Russian Railways fulfilled the goal of the Eastern Operating Domain’s capacity of 158 million tonnes, which we planned last year. They show excellent performance numbers. I am aware that you had a meeting with Oleg Belozerov [CEO of Russian Railways].
Vladimir Putin: Yes, I did.
Vitaly Savelyev: This year our goal is to transport 173 million tonnes. I believe this should not be a problem. And then 180 million tonnes in 2024.
So far, the figures have been encouraging. I think we will have this implemented soon.
Vladimir Putin: Who built the transshipment facility in the Primorye Territory?
Vitaly Savelyev: It is a coal complex. I cannot give you the name of the company now.
Vladimir Putin: It was a company from Yakutia, wasn’t it?
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes. And NOVATEK did …
Vladimir Putin: Kamchatka.
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes, Kamchatka…
Vladimir Putin: Mr Misharin was in charge of Taman, I think.
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes, it is his company. They are working with bulk cargoes as well.
Importantly, the length of the waterways that can be used by cargo ships is almost 102,000 kilometres which is second only to China with its 126,000 kilometres and is twice as long as in Europe, Germany, for example, or in the United States. However, our contribution to GDP is under 2 percent, whereas they account for 6.8 percent of GDP.
Our current goal is to deepen our main rivers, the Volga and the Don rivers. We are building the Gorodetsky hydroelectric complex on the Volga, and the Bagaevsky hydroelectric complex on the Don. The construction will be completed in 2024 and will sharply raise the level of the Azov Sea-Black Sea corridor.
Vladimir Putin: I see the seaport capacity has also increased.
Vitaly Savelyev: It has.
Vladimir Putin: By 36 million tonnes, I think.
Vitaly Savelyev: First, we now have Mariupol and Berdyansk, which brings the total to 63 seaports. We see the capacity expand, and the ports bring it up from 835 tonnes to almost 2 million tonnes, which is a significant number.
Border checkpoints. You know, Mr President, Russia has the longest border – 61,500 kilometres, of which 23,000 kilometres are land borders and 38,000 are maritime borders. A total of 377 checkpoints, and 314 of them are open.
We have made significant progress thanks to your support and the funds allocated.
Over the five years from 2017 to 2021, we implemented only 64 projects, while in 2022, we carried out as many as 65 in one year. I will tell you about them later. This year, we are going to implement more than 73.
As to our bottlenecks, there is the Russian-Azerbaijani border, for example. It is a short stretch in terms of length, only 326 kilometres, but it has five checkpoints: Derbent, a railway checkpoint, another checkpoint in the mountains for pedestrian crossing, Yarag-Kazmalyar – a landmark checkpoint I hope we will finish this year, I am sure of it, Tagirkent-Kazmalyar and Novo-Filya.
What have we done?
(Points to visual materials.) Look, we have increased through traffic by 700 trucks via Yarag-Kazmalyar, so actually, we have widened the bottlenecks.
The next section, which is very important, is the Russia-China border. It is 4,200 kilometres long, and there are 28 checkpoints, of which only 18 are open today due to Covid restrictions. Here we have increased the number of railway checkpoints in accordance with the pairs of trains. For example, the Zabaikalsk railway checkpoint, which is very important for us, can now handle up to 30 pairs of trains theoretically (the actual traffic is half that number at present), that is, has extra available capacity.
And this is very important, if you remember: Verkhny Lars is a very old problem. However, we managed to achieve something, although…
Vladimir Putin: It closes in winter.
Vyacheslav Savelyev: There is a period of landslides indeed. But we have built 24 additional lanes there. The Terek is pressing them on one side, and on the other side, there is a mountain, so we built them diagonally. And now we have 15 passages for trucks and 12 for cars. That is, the checkpoint can now handle more than 4,500 or 4,700 vehicles a day. We have widened a major bottleneck.
Therefore, I hope that we will gradually streamline all the border checkpoints. We have developed a standard checkpoint format and are now trying to introduce it, to develop a standard for everyone else, to scale it.
As you may be aware, we are working on two massive infrastructure projects.
We posted record high numbers under the comprehensive plan for upgrading and expanding the main infrastructure as well. We have fulfilled it by 97.82 percent which is an excellent figure.
(Points to informational materials.) Take a look at the target number and the actual result: we have exceeded every target under the Comprehensive Modernisation Plan, and I believe we will finish many projects this year, which is critical to ensure development.
Safe High-Quality Roads is another major national project. We implemented this at a record 97.82 percent. Not everything depends on the Ministry of Transport, and benchmarks provided by other ministries are included here as well.
As per your instruction, we must bring 85 percent of the federal roads in agglomerations up to code (as of today, this number stands at 79.3 percent) and 50 percent of the federal roads in the regions. If properly funded, we will finish this work ahead of schedule.
Vladimir Putin: By 2030?
Vitaly Savelyev: No, by 2024. But I think we can have it done by the beginning of next year.
Vladimir Putin: That is, 85 percent by 2024?
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: So, this needs to be finished this year?
Vitaly Savelyev: In fact, I believe, it says through 2024. Nevertheless, this is not included in the official benchmarks, and we discussed this with you. We have 136 …
Vladimir Putin: But you are ahead of schedule as it is.
Vitaly Savelyev: We are.
Vladimir Putin: The target was…
Vitaly Savelyev: 77 percent according to the plan, and we now stand at 79 percent.
There are also 136,000 kilometres worth of core road networks, which include federal networks, federal roads, and some regional roads. Here, too, we are working to finish everything we mentioned above by 2030. We have good reason to believe we can do that.
Mr President, this slide shows our legislative activities. We are working hard in this regard. The slide shows that we adopted 30 federal laws in 2017–2019, and 51 laws in 2020–2022. We are working hard in this regard. There are seminal laws that we need today, especially given the circumstances. This is to say that the Ministry of Transport is doing quite well in this area as well.
The last slide, Mr President, shows our transport corridors; you know them well: these are the North-South, the Azov-Black Sea direction, and the East.
(Pointing to information materials.) Our main direction now is North-South, as shown here. Here we have three directions, it sorts of splits into three corridors. There is a western corridor, which goes along the side of Azerbaijan. Here we have a bottleneck, Rasht – Astara, 162 km long. But, you know, we have a solution.
Vladimir Putin: It costs about 600 billion.
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes. It is 162 km long. It can be completed, according to our estimate…
Vladimir Putin: In four years.
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes. You know everything. There are 162 km there, or four years, if we remain in the track of 1,435 mm, which is very important, and then we can already move.
The second is the Trans-Caspian route. This is a very important route, with three of our ports involved: Makhachkala, Olya and Astrakhan.
Vladimir Putin: Here is the first section, 162 km long, and a 1,520-millimeter track can be made in four years. What is the difference?
Vitaly Savelyev: In my opinion, we will not be able to do 1,520 in four years.
Vladimir Putin: Why? Because of bureaucracy?
Vitaly Savelyev: No. I can answer. Now we have an offer…
Vladimir Putin: I do not only mean our bureaucracy, but also external bureaucracy.
Vitaly Savelyev: Of course, in general.
What we can do? We are now making a complex track.
Vladimir Putin: I know.
Vitaly Savelyev: So, we will now set 1,435 mm for the time being. If we see it can be changed to 1,520, which is what we are talking about, we simply add more rails.
Vladimir Putin: There is no need to add them. Put broader ones from the beginning.
Vitaly Savelyev: It will be a different sum then.
Vladimir Putin: The difference is 400 million.
Vitaly Savelyev: I promise to look it through separately.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
Vitaly Savelyev: And what I was starting to talk about is the Trans-Caspian Sea crossing. There are three ports used there. It had to do with dredging, there were problems: when there is an outflow, the level drops to 3.5 m there. Vessels are underloaded, so efficiency is decreasing.
Last year we deepened it for the first time, scooped out five million tons of silt and soil. This year we have to move 12 million tonnes. We have already sent there 16 special trains and dredgers that can do all this within the specified time frame.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Savelyev, I meant to put long sleepers to begin with. It is possible not to lay 1,520.
Vitaly Savelyev: Yes, we are doing that.
Vladimir Putin: But lay the sleepers on which you can put 1,520.
Vitaly Savelyev: This is what we are doing. The complex sleeper can provide for this.
Vladimir Putin: And the difference will be only 400 million rubles. This is also a lot of money, but it creates prospects for development along our wider track.
Vitaly Savelyev: And the third one is the eastern route, you know, which goes through Turkmenistan. We are currently working on this route. We will transport one million tons of cargo. The eastern direction is the Eastern Operating Domain, you know the course of its development well.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Topics
Transport
Persons
Savelyev Vitaly
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 9, 2023, 22:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting of the Supervisory Board of the autonomous non-profit organisation Agency for Strategic Initiatives to Promote New Projects (ASI).
February 9, 2023
17:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 12
Meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board.
The meeting was held to discuss ASI’s performance in 2022 and its plans for 2023, including the implementation of the National Social Initiative and a job-training programme to ensure technological sovereignty.
Reports were presented by Director General of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives to Promote New Projects Svetlana Chupsheva
; Director of the Agency for the Development of Professional Skills (WorldSkills Russia) and Special Presidential Envoy on Digital and Technological Development Dmitry Peskov; Director of the Human Resources Division of the ASI Young Professionals Robert Urazov; Member of the ASI Supervisory Board and Chair of the VEB.RF State Development Corporation Igor Shuvalov
; and Head of the Republic of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov
.
The guests invited to the meeting spoke about their work: Natalya Polyanskova, Regional Service Commissioner and Public Adviser to the Samara Region Governor on improving the quality of social services; Yelena Popova, President of the CSKA Disabled Supporters Association Moscow regional public organisation and Leading Specialist of the project office for sustainable development and social responsibility of the Russian Football Union; Director-General of Motorika Andrei Davidyuk, and Director-General of Transport of the Future Yury Kozarenko.
Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova
, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin
, First Deputy Chair of the State Duma Committee on Regional Policy and Local Government Sergei Morozov; and President of the Opora Russia Public Association of Small and Medium-Sized Businesses Alexander Kalinin made comments at the meeting.
The Agency for Strategic Initiatives was established in 2011 to support projects aimed at system-wide changes to improve the quality of life, education and job training, regional and urban development, the environment, and the creation of new technologies.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, friends,
We are holding a regular meeting of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Supervisory Board. We are meeting in an unusual format. I have invited to the Kremlin the Agency’s project leaders, not all of them, of course, but some of those who are putting their ideas into practice.
I would like those who are attending this meeting to tell us about the work they are doing and how their experience can be applied across the country. I promise you that after that I will issue instructions to various departments, first of all, the Government of the Russian Federation, to translate your ideas into practice.
But first of all, I would like to thank the Agency’s entire team. Your programmes and ideas are gaining strength and are being implemented in large cities and small towns, and attracting more supporters, who are active, bold and goal-oriented people.
We will certainly build up and expand the Agency’s capabilities for promoting civil and business initiatives, using, in part, the mechanisms of the Strong Ideas for a New Time forum, which will now be held annually. As you probably know, I have signed Executive Order on this issue.
I would like to share some considerations and ideas on my part, notably, to award every year at the forum the companies that win a contest of the best new domestic brands. But this is just a small part of what is planned. The goal that I would like to set before the Agency is much bigger.
I will explain what I mean. We have many good, quality products, clothes and everyday goods that are produced by domestic companies. Until recently, they found it difficult to get access even to the local market, and to compete with global players, primarily Western companies.
Incidentally, at one time many of these companies gained traction owing to the support of their states. This is exactly what the situation was like in different industries despite all statements to the effect that the market decides everything. Anyway, without state support many global brands would not have been able to occupy such positions.
But, you know, now many of them are leaving our market under pressure from their governments – good luck! They are sustaining tremendous losses by quitting our market, but this is their choice, their decision. Many of them – I know this for sure because I know them personally – are doing this with no pleasure at all. Indeed, who wants to lose a well-established business in which they invested so much effort and money? In some cases, money is beside the point. Frankly, many of them invested their heart and soul in their business and did a good job. Now they have to leave under pressure from their governments, leaving behind a good legacy – the production infrastructure and well-trained personnel.
Perhaps some people thought that all this would collapse and fall apart in our hands. But nothing like this is happening – nothing has collapsed and nothing is falling apart. Our companies, our businesspeople are picking up these companies or even branches and continuing this work with success. It is important for us that our domestic producers have received unique opportunities for development. They should certainly take full advantage of them.
All those present and all those who work within the Agency’s framework, have experience in improving the business environment, including for entrepreneurs who are just starting their business. The Agency has done much for our business to develop.
Now I would like the Agency for Strategic Initiatives to create a system for selecting, and most importantly, promoting promising domestic brands. The goal is to help companies build up the production and marketing of their products and to more quickly take the road from a small, even local, but still successful company to business on a national scale.
I have no doubt that the regions of the Russian Federation will also quickly pick up this initiative. Together, we will be able to create the conditions for making Russian goods and services a source of national pride. We already have many products like this, but at a new stage, we can act faster to make these goods and services successful in both domestic and foreign markets.
Naturally, we should be striving for this because being limited to the domestic market is not the best scenario. This is just half the road but we should not stop halfway. We must compete in foreign markets because it will encourage every company to achieve a bigger, and eventually, the necessary result.
I am sure that we have enormous potential for developing domestic business. It requires support in all areas, including in innovation sectors.
I would like to note that the developments of the Agency and the participants in the National Technological Initiative have entered the recently signed list of instructions on developing a whole industry in Russia, namely – I will take this separate industry just as an example because it is indicative – unmanned aircraft systems or drones.
In the near future, the Government will draft a national project to create opportunities for the large-scale use of drones, and, most importantly, to localise production on a big scale. I recently saw on one of the platforms just how many interesting and new ideas we have, new even in this area, and how many of them have already been promoted.
Moreover, unmanned systems are a good catalyst for so-called end-to-end technologies in such areas as navigation, communications, energy storage systems, innovative materials, artificial intelligence, engine manufacturing, micro- and radio electronics.
I ask the Agency to provide the necessary expert support to Russian regions, both in terms of generating demand for drones and creating modern local infrastructure for their widespread use.
In spring, we will discuss the results of this huge joint effort at a special meeting; we will invite representatives of ministries, agencies and companies that work in this area. I very much hope that your colleagues, I mean our colleagues working within the Agency’s framework, will also take part in this meeting.
One more thing I would like to note. I would like ASI and the Professional Skills Development Agency to create a system of training personnel for developing unmanned aircraft, and in general, to consider creating international programmes to train specialists for high-tech industries, involving our EAEU partners as well as other interested states. There are many such states, and many want to cooperate with us. I would like to hear specific proposals on this matter, including, and above all, from members of the Supervisory Board, of course.
We must set ambitious goals – we never stopped talking about this since the day the Agency was established: strive to make Russia a source of technology and expertise, and of course, set an example in creating opportunities for each person's self-realisation – we must be adamant that each person's success will propel the whole country forward – to be able to offer the best standards for social development. We will also talk about this later.
In this regard, I will focus on the most important areas of the Agency's activities, namely, on spreading, replicating and exchanging best practices from Russian regions when it comes to organising the operation of schools and hospitals, improving cities and towns, and creating a comfortable living environment and the right conditions for launching entrepreneurial, creative projects. Ms Chupsheva has been working on this specifically for a long time.
By the way, best practices must certainly be used when drafting and implementing socioeconomic development programmes in the Lugansk and Donetsk people's republics, as well as the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions. The new regions (we are using the term “new regions” tentatively, because we know well from history that these regions are Russian regions) must be brought up to national standards in terms of key indicators, and this should be done within the span of this decade. The sooner, the better, though. When I say a decade, this does not mean that we are going to expand this work to fill the next decade. Clearly, we need to move at a steady pace gradually according to the plan.
To reiterate, all our regions must make progress and offer a comfortable living environment for their residents for them to associate the future of their families with these regions and plan their future around them so that, as sociologists put it, people stay committed to their towns, villages, and localities where they were born and raised, in other words, to their lesser motherland, because the Motherland begins with one’s lesser motherland, obviously.
Today, we will review the 2022 results, name the winners and the regions with the best social development dynamics that have made significant progress.
We will definitely discuss the support our regions are providing to participants in the special military operation and their families, as well as people in need of special attention and care such as senior citizens and people with disabilities.
Again, we need to actively use the best practices and experiences gained by individual regions in order to change management approaches nationwide. I can see Mr Gref on the screen who has worked on this for a long time now since when he worked in the Government. Now that he is head of our largest financial institution, he is working on it from a new perspective.
Sber has a proven track record in this regard, without a doubt, and its successes can be replicated for every social safety net worker and every official to see the actual problems people and their families are facing behind the paperwork and instructions and help them overcome their hardships.
This is what the National Social Initiative, which you are implementing jointly with the State Council working group and the constituent entities of the Russian Federation, is all about. Please tell us more about the status of this project of national importance.
Svetlana Chupsheva knows about this more than anyone else, because, I think, this is what she was doing when she joined the Agency for Strategic Initiatives.
Please, Ms Chupsheva, the floor is yours.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I would like to express my gratitude to the agency for the work it is doing. I agree with the assessments of the Supervisory Board members, with the assessments of the agency's activities. What needs to be done in the near future is clear and understandable; Svetlana Chupsheva spoke about this. Let us summarise what we talked about today, including our guests, summarise the proposals made by the participants in our meeting today, and move forward.
Thank you all very much. Good day.
Topics
Social services
Persons
Chupsheva Svetlana
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 9, 2023, 17:10
Text version