Events
Meeting on socioeconomic development of Crimea and Sevastopol
Vladimir Putin held a videoconference meeting on the socioeconomic development of the Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol.
March 17, 2023
18:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting on socioeconomic development of Crimea and Sevastopol (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
, Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov
, Minister of Construction, Housing and Utilities Irek Fayzullin
, Head of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov
, Governor of Sevastopol Mikhail Razvozhayev
, and Head of the Cossack Bay educational centre Tatyana Dontsova.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
The topic of today's meeting is the socioeconomic development of the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. We will discuss the region’s performance results and the priorities for the future.
But before we begin, I would like to wish all the best to the residents of Crimea and Sevastopol and all citizens of our country on the upcoming Day of Crimea's Reunification with Russia.
Nine years ago, the people in Crimea and Sevastopol made their unequivocal and final historical choice to become part of our large and united country once again and for all time.
Clearly, security is a priority for Crimea and Sevastopol, especially today. We will do our best to stop any threats.
And of course, despite all the challenges and difficulties, we will consistently and systematically work to accelerate the socioeconomic development of Crimea and Sevastopol, to implement all our plans to improve the quality of life of local people, increase family incomes and investment, ramp up the region’s industrial, agricultural and tourism potential, support entrepreneurship and business initiative, create new jobs, and implement dedicated projects to improve transport and energy infrastructure, housing and utilities, healthcare, education, and culture.
We have expanded the state programme for the socioeconomic development of the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, which is the main tool in this comprehensive work, and extended it for another two years, until 2027. The total amount of funding for the entire period is over 1.6 trillion rubles, and we have already allocated most of these funds, including more than 116 billion rubles in 2022 alone.
Today, that investment has brought tangible returns and advanced the region’s development. I would like to thank everyone involved in the implementation of this significant and important programme: our colleagues from the Government and relevant agencies, regional authorities, municipalities, businesses, and teams of various companies, especially representatives of the construction industry. Local residents and guests of Crimea and Sevastopol have a chance to see the results of your hard and professional work with their own eyes.
Over the last years, hundreds of important facilities in various areas have been created and put into operation, including support facilities, hubs necessary for the development of the entire transport infrastructure of the peninsula. I mean the Simferopol airport, modern Tavrida highway, and, of course, the Crimean bridge. Its restoration after the terrorist attack continues, and I am confident this work will be completed on schedule. It is already open to vehicle traffic, and the railway tracks are being repaired. I would like to ask you to report on this separately today.
Today, the road network is actively developing, the utilities infrastructure is improving, housing construction is speeding up, and sports facilities, schools and kindergartens are opening under the state programme. Last year alone, the construction of nine preschool facilities for 1,630 places was completed, and this year’s plans include the opening of about 140 different new facilities. Today we will discuss how the work is progressing, what problems and what specific construction projects require assistance, need to be addressed separately.
I repeat, the state programme is, of course, the main, key tool for the socioeconomic development, effective planning and investment of significant public funds. At the same time, I set the task of significantly increasing the inflow of private investment, creating more comfortable, favourable conditions for businesses that want to work in the Crimea and Sevastopol.
A lot has already been done in this area: the regulatory framework is being updated, various barriers and excessive requirements are being removed. As a result, over 250 investment projects with a total investment of 450 billion rubles are being implemented in the Republic of Crimea. There are about 100 other projects in Sevastopol worth over 217 billion rubles.
It is important to develop an up-to-date and in-demand mechanism of public-private partnership in the form of a special economic zone created on the peninsula. According to the results of its work for eight years, every ruble invested, every ruble of the benefits provided by the state raised three rubles. I repeat, for one ruble of public funds, three rubles are invested. By the beginning of this year, over 1,578 companies had registered as residents, 85 percent of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
And of course, we need to keep a strong focus on this segment of domestic business and generally meet investors halfway, stay in touch with them, and respond to requests and suggestions, given their willingness to work in rather difficult conditions of external restrictions.
Colleagues,
These nine years, and last year especially, showed that together we can overcome any difficulty, achieve really significant, big results, and make progress towards the goals we have set. And you always need to work in this way, for the people, in unison, as a team. This fully applies to supporting the development of Crimea and Sevastopol.
Let us move on to our today’s agenda. I would like to ask Governor of Sevastopol Mikhail Razvozhayev to speak first. Please, Mr Razvozhayev.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
I would like to thank you all for the work that has been done over the past year for the development of Crimea and Sevastopol.
I would like to once again congratulate all residents of Crimea and Sevastopol, as well as all citizens of the Russian Federation. This is a great event in the life of the country. I think it is very appropriate that every year we give attention to this, including by doing everything we can to develop Crimea and Sevastopol, to support those people who live in these historically Russian territories and who decided in 2014 to reunite with their historic homeland. This, I repeat, is the most important event. And now, as in previous years, and in the coming period, we will, of course, do everything for the development of these territories.
Thank you all very much and once again congratulations on the holiday.
All the best.
Geography
Sevastopol
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Regions
Persons
Aksyonov Sergei
Khusnullin Marat
Razvozhayev Mikhail
Reshetnikov Maxim
1 more
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 17, 2023, 18:05
Text versionEvents
Meeting with permanent members of the Security Council
Vladimir Putin held a briefing session with permanent members of the Security Council, via videoconference.
March 17, 2023
20:05
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 2
At a meeting with permanent members of the Security Council (via videoconference).
Taking part in the meeting were Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin
, Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Secretary of the Security Council Nikolai Patrushev
, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service Sergei Naryshkin
, and Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov
.
* * *
President Vladimir Putin: Good evening.
We have agreed that Mr Lavrov will report today on the progress of our interaction in the Caspian region. We will discuss separate issues, and there are a lot of them, they are concern our neighbours. We have a huge range of issues there on the agenda all the time: economic, political and security-related.
Please. Let's get to work. Mr Lavrov, if you will.
<…>
See also
Security Council News
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts, Security Council
Publication date: March 17, 2023, 20:05
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Vasily Anokhin
Vladimir Putin had a meeting, via videoconference, with Vasily Anokhin, who was appointed Acting Governor of the Smolensk Region by Presidential Executive Order.
March 17, 2023
19:45
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Vasily Anokhin was appointed Acting Governor of the Smolensk Region by Presidential Executive Order (meeting via videoconference).
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon, Mr Anohkin.
Vasily Anokhin
: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Anokhin, you are not a stranger to the Smolensk Region – you held a high post there not so long ago. How do you assess the current situation in the region? You also have extensive work experience in central executive bodies, in the Government of the Russian Federation. What do you think are the top priorities for the region at present?
See also
Vasily Anokhin appointed Acting Governor of Smolensk Region
March 17, 2023
Vasily Anokhin: Mr President, indeed I am well aware of the issues and the situation in the region, I did live and work there and had a family in the Smolensk Region. I was responsible for such crucial matters as finance, the budget and economic development and I made every effort to ensure a good quality of life and decent living conditions for the region’s residents.
I realise that very many issues need to be addressed. The most urgent concerns for the region’s residents are healthcare, education, environmental issues, the utilities sector, as well as social security, especially for mobilised citizens and their families. Those are the issues that will be topmost on my agenda.
I understand all the steps that I need to make and I am ready to draft, within a month, a detailed plan for the region’s development, in particular with a view to the measures and instruments adopted by you, Mr President, concerning infrastructure development. I am ready to incorporate all those mechanisms, and the knowledge I acquired in my current work, into the region’s development plan, and report to you, if you agree.
Mr President, the region has many opportunities. I used to work there and I know that it has a favourable geography, all the necessary resources and the key is the high quality of human resources, the people. I worked with them, and I understand and know them well. Therefore, I am confident that I will not let you down, and we will achieve all the objectives set for the region’s development.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Anokhin, it is true that you have positive experience of working in the Government of the Russian Federation in such crucial areas as utilities and construction. In the recent period you worked as director of the Regional Development Department at the Government of the Russian Federation. To be frank, I am counting on using your contacts with your colleagues in the Government to effectively resolve the issues the region is facing.
You have named all the competitive advantages of the Smolensk Region. Indeed, the most important advantage is the people, who are devoted to their home region, who love it, and these are good and well-trained people. The region is located on the western border of the Russian Federation, and this is also of special importance. Therefore, I hope that you will take into account these factors in your new job with a higher level of responsibility and realise your best qualities for the benefit of Smolensk Region residents. I would like to wish you every success.
Vasily Anokhin: I am grateful for your support. This is a huge responsibility for me and a huge challenge. I will do everything in my power, I will make every effort and use all my knowledge and experience to help develop the region and improve the quality of life and well-being of the people who live there. I will try to implement this and do everything that is needed.
Vladimir Putin: Good luck.
At the first opportunity – and you will get one – as soon as you have taken the first steps in this work, we will talk in person and discuss what needs to be done additionally in order to ensure that all the objectives that have been set in terms of the region’s development are achieved.
All the best.
Geography
Smolensk Region
Topics
Civil service
Regions
Persons
Anokhin Vasily
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 17, 2023, 19:45
Text version