Events
Visiting Obukhov Plant
Vladimir Putin visited the Obukhov Plant, part of Almaz-Antey Aerospace Defence Corporation. The President talked with plant workers.
January 18, 2023
15:35
St Petersburg
4 of 14
While visiting the Northwestern Regional Centre of the Almaz-Antey Aerospace Defence Corporation Obukhov Plant, Vladimir Putin inspected a prototype E-NEVA electric crossover. Photo: Alexei Danichev, RIA Novosti
The President also inspected the enterprise’s shops and was shown military and civilian products.
The President was shown a prototype E-NEVA electric crossover and the Russian-made BAZ-S36A11 four-wheel-drive civilian lorry. The President saw medical equipment, including a modular robotic exoskeleton, manufactured at the plant, and the Mangust mobile radio beacon for directing and controlling ground traffic at airfields. The President was also shown 3D printers and simulators for training and retraining air traffic controllers.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
I am very happy to see you, and I would like to congratulate all St Petersburg and Leningrad residents on today’s event, namely, the 80th anniversary of breaking the siege of Leningrad. I have just met with veterans, and I have said that this event is of significance not only to our city but to the entire country.
See also
Meeting with Great Patriotic War veterans, residents of besieged Leningrad and representatives of patriotic public associations
January 18, 2023
Of course, I could not help but visit St Petersburg enterprises that manufacture essential defence produce that the country has always needed, and it needs it more than ever today. This year marks the 160th anniversary of the Obukhov Plant, a major leading enterprise of the national defence industry. It operates very reliably, stably, and it posts good results. I hope that this will also be the case in the future.
It is a pleasure to see you. I would be happy to speak if you want to hear something from me.
Anton Kochkin: My name is Anton; I work in this shop as a construction electrician.
Since last summer we have been working in three shifts. We have been working hard, probably like people did in the first five-year plan periods if we recall history. However, in the 1990s, the production cluster was practically destroyed. Won’t this happen again, or, to be more precise, won’t it be repeated after the tasks of the special military operation are resolved?
Vladimir Putin: But you said yourself that the plant went through difficult times in the 1990s. Moreover, if we take this cluster, it is historic on the one hand, but has a lot of new features, on the other. Since 2013, additional decisions were made to restore and develop the plant. We started restoring our defence industry, including the Obukhov Plant and the entire corporation, long before the special military operation we are now conducting.
The corporation is manufacturing much needed products. As you know there is a great demand for them in the world arms markets but right now, they are needed primarily for the Russian army. Nothing of the kind, no crashes are expected, especially since this equipment has a big cycle and all contracts and agreements have been signed.
At the same time, there is a task that never goes away, no matter what, which is that defence companies must produce not only military but also civilian equipment. Just now during my conversation with your executives, one of them said, “We feel more stable when we stand on our own two feet, two supports. And the second one is civilian equipment.” Yes, the task is to reach 30 percent – 30 percent of what defence companies produce should be civilian. In 2021, the figure was 27 percent, which is close to the goal of 30 percent.
Additional
All news about the working trip to Northwestern Federal District
January 18, 2023
Probably, now the share of combat equipment is growing but our requirements are also on the rise. However, we will resolve this task of producing civilian equipment gradually. There will be military orders, while also growing the civilian side. I am sure that such large concerns as Almaz-Antei and the Obukhov Plant will confidently stand on their feet.
Do you know what else is happening now? We have just looked at some samples of equipment that you have been producing after some of our so-called partners left our market. It appears that our production level has become high enough. Our businesses rather easily intercept what was left by these partners. In other words, we have learned to produce what we could not make yesterday. Of course, this does not mean that we can produce 100 percent of what they did, but we will achieve the production level we need. The Obukhov Plant will feel confident. There is no doubt about this.
Anton Kochkin: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Anything else? Yes, go ahead, please.
Artyom Bogdanov: Artyom Bogdanov, process engineer.
Mr President, the Obukhov Plant plays an active role in the programme for training specialists for defence industry enterprises under targeted training contracts. Are there plans to defer conscription for jobs in the defence industry or to recognise work in the industry as alternative service at the legislative level?
Vladimir Putin: You know, as for the draft within the partial mobilisation, all workers in the defence industry were granted such an opportunity, that is, they were exempted from the draft. And in the economy in general, as the Defence Ministry reported, that number was around 830,000, I think.
This is the first thing.
The second concerns conscripts who are drafted for regular service. Given that the defence industry is operating at full capacity and you are working in three shifts, as well as the urgent demand for its products, we are also considering granting deferment of military service to those who have to be called up for compulsory military service. I think this issue will also be resolved soon.
Artyom Bogdanov: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: You are welcome.
Andrei Novikov: I am Andrei Novikov, an assembly shop worker. Tell me please, is it possible to fix wage indexation at least at the level of the country’s official inflation?
Vladimir Putin: This is one of the most pressing issues, a key one, we can say it concerns the level of well-being of our citizens, our people. It is being addressed in different ways, I will say, there are two main components to it.
In the public sector, as laid out in the so-called May Executive Orders of 2012, a lot has been done, but unfortunately, a lot has not yet been done to the level intended. But we will certainly continue to work in this area. In this regard, the Government has been instructed to complete wage indexing in the public sector as early as January.
As for the private sector and state-owned enterprises operating on the market, it is quite a different story here because dictating wage levels at enterprises in an administrative manner is very dangerous as it can throw their finances out of balance. Ultimately, if you go down that path, an enterprise could become unprofitable, it would simply close down and that would be it, the jobs would disappear. So, we must be very careful in this respect in a market economy.
But this does not mean at all that we should not think about it. On the contrary, we must think about this all the time. Other mechanisms are used in this case, at any rate, today, for instance, an increase in the minimum wage. Why? Because the minimum wage affects many other components related to wages and salaries in both the public and private sectors, or in the sectors of a vibrant market economy.
Last year, we increased the minimum wage twice. I think overall it was an increase of 19.5 percent. I may be wrong, but it was certainly above the inflation rate that turned out to be less than 12 percent in this country. That said, we must realise that despite an average inflation rate of less than 12 percent, the situation with some products, some product groups, especially foods, looked quite different, especially in the middle of last year. People, the average citizens, experience serious pressure at times.
So, with these and other mechanisms, we will certainly monitor the level of wages and the correlation between inflation processes, that is, the rising costs of goods and services with real wages. For this year, I again instructed the Government to adjust the minimum wage to keep the increase above the rate of inflation.
As I have said, I hope there is a downward trend for inflation (inflation is actually the increase of prices). It is less than its target indicators and less than our experts thought, their foreign colleagues as well. Annual inflation is below 12 percent.
I will recall that in some so-called developed economies, inflation is over 20, 21 and even 25 percent. In some countries that I will not name now, but that also seem to do well, inflation is close to 70 percent. Ours is under 12 percent – this is also a bit too much, but there is a downward trend. We believe that in the first quarter it will be about 5 percent. It is even expected to drop again.
To put it simply, there are certain traps, as we discussed with the Government just yesterday. If inflation is reduced completely, the economy could see some failures. This is why the Central Bank’s policy is based on the premise that inflation should be around 5–7 percent. But adjustments to the minimum wage and other payment benefits related to real income needs to stay ahead of the curve; it should be above inflation.
Andrei Novikov: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, please.
Irina Yashina: Good afternoon. Irina Yashina, design engineer.
Child support allowances are paid until the child is 18 months old. Kindergartens do not always take children that young. Is it possible to pay allowances until a child turns 3 if a kindergarten cannot take the child?
Vladimir Putin: What district do you live in?
Irina Yashina: Lastochkino Gnezdo, Nevsky District.
Vladimir Putin: Nevsky District? And you are unable to place your child in a kindergarten there?
Irina Yashina: My child started going to kindergarten at the age of two-and-a-half.
Vladimir Putin: So, he did go?
Irina Yashina: Yes, he did.
Additional
Meeting with St Petersburg Governor Alexander Beglov
January 18, 2023
Vladimir Putin: The reason I am asking is because Mr Beglov reported to me that the city of St Petersburg is meeting 100 percent of the demand for preschool facilities. There are 64 such regions in the Russian Federation. I think this year – next year, for sure – but preferably this year, all regions should make sure that all families that want their children go to kindergarten and preschool are able to do so.
So, once again, Mr Beglov, are these needs covered 100 percent in St Petersburg?
Governor of St Petersburg Alexander Beglov
: There are no issues with placing children aged two-and-a-half at kindergartens. If some districts are still experiencing a shortage, we will resolve them completely this year. So, if there are issues, we are ready to consider and resolve them.
Vladimir Putin: Look, according to official reports, you have 100 percent of the demand covered, but now you are saying that some districts are experiencing shortages. Please look into that.
Alexander Beglov: In the case of newly built housing, when construction projects are being transferred and accepted…
Vladimir Putin: Take another look at it. You just told me that you personally started paying more attention to social infrastructure, including schools, outpatient clinics and kindergartens, when building new residential neighbourhoods. Take another look at it.
Alexander Beglov: Yes, sir.
Vladimir Putin: What is the situation like in the country overall? Indeed, child support benefits are paid until a child turns 18 months, and then nothing is paid through the age of 3. Clearly, kindergartens are important.
In this regard, I would like to say that other support measures can be used. For example, we have resolved that children from low-income families, families with an average per capita income below the subsistence minimum, are eligible for benefits in the amount of up to one subsistence minimum per child up to 17 years old inclusive. That is one thing.
The second. Indeed, child support benefits are paid until a child is 18 months, and then no allowances are paid until the child turns 3. However, families with a per capita income at or below two minimum wages can draw funds from the maternity capital. It can be done. However, the most important thing is to make sure that everyone who wants to see their child go to a kindergarten can do so. We will make it happen.
In St Petersburg, if something is not up to code, the governor says he will bring things up to code. Indeed, this has been done in almost all districts. Perhaps, something is not working out as it is supposed to in some places, or maybe certain things are not suitable for certain people, but this is a different issue that requires our attention.
Irina Yashina: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Please, go ahead.
Vladimir Viru: Hello, my name is Vladimir Viru, I am an electrician.
My question is this: will additional support be given to the defence sector and, in particular, to our plant, given the current foreign policy situation?
Vladimir Putin: Support is being continually provided. Your top managers, Mr Mikhail Podvyaznikov [General Director of the Obukhov Plant] will confirm that we are working along several lines. Funds are being allocated to address current financial needs, expand the plant’s capacity, manufacture up-to-date products that are most needed, and to go from producing individual items to mass production. In general, there are very many areas that are being given support.
We have only just talked to the top managers of corporation about yet another opportunity to provide support, keeping in mind that the external market has obviously moved to the background because we have to meet the needs of the Russian Armed Forces. Therefore, some questions that arise require special attention from the Government and we will look into them but now I will not go into detail – the general director together with the minister and the deputy prime minister [in charge of these issues] just told me about this.
There is one more issue that needs to be considered. We recently met in Tula with the general directors of various plants and also talked about it. I am talking about the Obukhov Plant, Almaz-Antey: unfortunately, some of our foreign customers have failed to meet their obligations in full and have not paid for the products they received from us. Of course, in this case we must support the plant and we will.
Vladimir Viru: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Are there more questions? No?
Please, go ahead.
(The discussion continued on an issue raised by Taras Tkachenko, an employee in the quality control department, who asked about healthcare for plant employees. The President promised that existing problems would be resolved.)
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead, please.
Vladimir Ivasenko: Good afternoon, Mr President. I am Vladimir Ivasenko, bureau head.
A lot of money was invested in the reconstruction of our sports complex and the development of the Almaz-Antei children’s football club after your visit in 2013. We would like to invite you to visit our sports complex again. Maybe the funding for the reconstruction of the Ice Palace will be found and we will play hockey with you in honour of the plant’s anniversary?
Vladimir Putin: Where would you like to build this Ice Palace?
Vladimir Ivasenko: At Spartak Garden.
Vladimir Putin: At Spartak Garden?
Vladimir Ivasenko: Near the plant.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Beglov, I think there is a circle road passing Spartak Garden, right?
Vladimir Ivasenko: Yes, that is right. It is behind it.
Vladimir Putin: Behind it. If something is built there in addition, especially a sports facility like this, I am not sure how safe it is. There was also to be a bridge there. Has it been built already?
Alexander Beglov: Yes.
Vladimir Putin: The Obukhov Bridge has been built, and the circle road uses it. How would you build under the bridge? Or maybe you could build a sports facility near the road? I do not think this is the best solution. We need to think it over. We should ask Mr Beglov and the plant management to look for a good site for this.
Alexander Beglov: Will do, we will look for it together, certainly.
Vladimir Putin: Yes, please look around for this because it is not very good to build it under the road, under the bridge. That said, the idea is generally very good. I will play hockey with pleasure.
Vladimir Ivasenko: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Go ahead, please.
Sergei Ryabinin: My name is Sergei Ryabinin, I am a construction electrician.
Today, we are observing the breaking of the siege of Leningrad. This is a personal story for every resident of Leningrad, St Petersburg. The Obukhov Plant was part of the frontline and over 6,500 of its employees lost their lives in the Great Patriotic War. Today, we are confronting Nazism again. What do you think can help us win in this confrontation?
Vladimir Putin: You know, I have just met with veterans and we talked about this. I would like to emphasise that it is absolutely justified to say that we are fighting against neo-Nazis.
After all, they have elevated Bandera to the rank of a national hero. He collaborated with Hitler and executed civilians. His accomplices also executed civilians. Can you even imagine? But everyone is silent. They do not notice. They pretend not to notice. But this is a fact and they continue these practices of using anti-retreat squads and executing civilians. They continue abusing civilians in Donbass and in adjacent territories, in fact.
Therefore, we are entirely justified in calling it a neo-Nazi regime. And we have every reason to help, including through the use of the Armed Forces, the people who consider themselves part of Russian culture and Russian language speakers, who cherish them as their own culture and traditions. We have no choice but to protect them.
Now about what could help us in this, considering what you said – our historical memory and the trials our people braved. You know, in this sense conceptually, in terms of achieving the final result and the victory that is inevitable, there are several things that have not gone anywhere and that are laying the foundation for our victory. This is the unity of the Russian people, the multi-ethic people of Russia, the courage and heroism of our soldiers in the special military operation and, of course, the work of the defence industry, companies like yours, and of the entire economy because each of these links in the chain – industry, the state of government finances, and the social sphere, which includes support for families and requires the special attention of the state, healthcare – each of these lays the groundwork for our effective development and our victory. Victory is assured. I have no doubt about it. It is assured, in part, by what you are working on, how you are going about it and what you do.
Here is one example. We have just talked to our colleagues, your top managers. For instance, we produce annually three times more of the air defence missiles that you manufacture than the United States does. Overall, our defence industry manufactures about the same number of air defence missiles of different designations as all of the world’s defence manufacturers put together. Our production is comparable with global production. So we have something to rely on. All this is bound to fill us with confidence that victory will be ours.
Sergei Ryabinin: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Topics
Armed Forces
Industry
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 18, 2023, 15:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Great Patriotic War veterans, residents of besieged Leningrad and representatives of patriotic public associations
Vladimir Putin met with Great Patriotic War veterans, residents of besieged Leningrad and representatives of patriotic public associations at the State Memorial Museum of the Defence and Siege of Leningrad.
January 18, 2023
13:45
St Petersburg
Before the meeting, Vladimir Putin toured the Spark of the Leningrad Victory exhibition in the company of Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Northwestern Federal District Alexander Gutsan
and St Petersburg Governor Alexander Beglov
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon.
See also
All news about the working trip to Northwestern Federal District
January 18, 2023
First of all, I would like to address the veterans and to congratulate you on the landmark event, namely, the 80th anniversary of breaking the siege of Leningrad. This is a major event for all of us – not only for the people of Leningrad, not only for the city, or for the heroic defenders and residents of besieged Leningrad, but for the entire country.
We have just talked with the city leadership about what happened during the most difficult months of the defence of Leningrad, about the heroism of its defenders and what city residents did to bring about victory over the enemy. All of that will always be remembered by our citizens, and we must ensure that future generations know about and cherish the memory of that page in our history.
I would like to once again sincerely congratulate you on this event. Representatives of different generations, including grey-haired veterans and young people, sufficiently young, at any rate, are present here. It is very good to have such a line-up here today.
I do not want to make any lengthy opening remarks because this is not the right occasion. I would like to listen to what you have to say about what the state and municipal authorities are doing to perpetuate the memory of all those who took part in defending the Motherland during the Great Patriotic War. This will allow us to make any adjustments and to implement some additional measures in this field.
Congratulations on the 80th anniversary of breaking the siege of Leningrad.
Go ahead, please, I will be happy to hear you out.
Excerpts from the transcript of the meeting with veterans of the Great Patriotic War, residents of besieged Leningrad and representatives of patriotic public associations
(In her remarks, Chair of the Board of the Residents of Besieged Leningrad [St Petersburg public organisation] Yelena Tikhomirova recalled her participation in court hearings on the genocide of Soviet people, including residents of Leningrad. She said the court established that representatives of some 11 European states, rather than the Germans alone, were fighting against Leningrad. In addition, the court established that 1,093,000 people had died during the siege, but even this figure is not final or complete. Ms Tikhomirova believes it necessary to continue the work on preserving the memory of the war on a large scale and intensify the efforts to spread the historical truth.)
Vladimir Putin:To begin with, I would like to thank you for coming through such difficult trials in the past, for not giving up, for supporting each other, and in this way supporting the city and the country. I am also grateful for what you are doing today.
You have made a very important point. The issue on recognising the genocide of Soviet civilians is very important. Of course, this issue was reviewed in the past in Nuremberg and was assessed by and large. But it was done this way because it was impossible to imagine, or even discuss and present all the facts on this genocide. And, indeed, many things have been forgotten.
In fact, you know, I will say one unusual thing, although there is really nothing unusual about it. We have a natural protection mechanism. A person very quickly forgets the bad things; everything is forgotten very quickly. A new generation sees what happened before its birth as some prehistoric event that seems to have nothing to do with them. To help them understand that this is not the case, we should certainly deal with it.
On the one hand, it is good that people do not live under the pressure of hard memories – that would be impossible. It would be terrible to exist like that; it is even terrible to imagine it. But historical memory must be preserved with the express purpose of preventing a repetition of the tragedies like those our people went through during the Great Patriotic War. There is also a practical point in this – we must promptly react to the emerging threats against our country. This is a very important point. Therefore, we will certainly work across the board on this.
First of all, it is necessary to pay attention to young people, using, of course, the tools and means they are familiar with so they can access everything better. But the most effective approach in this respect is the memories of those who passed through these grievous trials. You are right in saying that life is life and many veterans are no longer with us, but there are some who are here and still strong. Of course, we should do all we can to make use of your knowledge. Because these are eye-witness accounts – not a book that can be rewritten or interpreted to someone’s benefit. This is my first point.
The second point is that we must also use the experience of our pedagogues, our teachers at different levels.
Now a few words on what you said about multi-ethnic occupation forces and those who fought against us, our enemies. Yes, this is right, and it has always been like this. Just look at Tolstoy’s War and Peace. He writes that it seemed like only the Napoleon-led French army attacked us, but in reality, this army represented all of Europe because by that time Napoleon Bonaparte had actually established control over all of mainland Europe. Tolstoy described how this happened during the 1812 Patriotic War. The same was repeated during the Great Patriotic War of 1941–1945 after Hitler had established control over mainland Europe as well. People from many European countries took part in the siege of Leningrad and committed crimes on the Leningrad Front.
Due to a certain tolerance or unwillingness to spoil relations or the background of our relations with many countries, we have not generally talked about this. But it happened not only in Leningrad, on the Leningrad Front or during the siege, it happened everywhere. It is enough to look at the Blue Division. They came to Leningrad, and were in Leningrad during the siege. They were from all countries, at least from many, anyway.
When you talk about the need to preserve historical memory, I wholeheartedly support this, as I said. We will do this at the government level and do it persistently to avoid anything like this in the future.
In the meantime, some people deliberately bury these facts in oblivion. As you have probably heard, we recently proposed a resolution at the UN, a document denouncing the glorification of Nazism. But 50 countries voted against it. Who would object to recognising the criminality of glorifying Nazism? What is going on? This is not simply some kind of historical or political amnesia. All of this is being moved here, to our time again. What for? To have a common front, to pressure our country based on the current political environment. So, unfortunately, not much has changed in this respect. This means that we must consistently protect the historical truth and do what you are suggesting. This is exactly what we will do.
(Nadezhda Strogonova, who is 102 years old, spoke about her work as a teacher during the siege. She began working in an orphanage. Of the first group of 200 orphaned children who entered the orphanage, only 37 could walk from the second floor to the dining hall. The rest were fed in bed. The orphanage operated from January 6 to August 26, 1942, and during this period, 625 children were saved and evacuated along the Road of Life. On September 1, a school opened there and classes began, even though every day schoolchildren and teachers had to hide in a bomb shelter during air raids. The school only lasted until April 16, 1943, when it was bombed by Nazi bombers. And so, it was necessary to look for a suitable building and start classes all over again. This is how the siege teachers worked despite the hunger and cold. Ms Strogonova expressed gratitude for the organisation of veteran teachers, but suggested that it include not only teachers, but other veterans who could help educate the new generation, passing on their experience and sharing their memories.)
Vladimir Putin: I have no comment. I just want express my deep respect for your heroic deed, for the deed of the people you have just mentioned.
Indeed, this is the most important thing I was talking about at the start of our conversation: testimonies. Face-to-face communication is the most penetrating, the most candid and the most truthful. So, thank you very much for what you have always done: both during the years of the siege when you were saving children, and after, in the course of your teaching career.
This year, the Year of the Teacher, it is all the more important to implement your ideas and proposals. We will definitely do it. I will discuss this with the Ministry of Education and the Government. With the support of the regions, we will certainly implement this idea of yours. So, thank you very much.
The teaching staff is indeed of vital importance. In recent years, we have tried to do everything to support teachers. But, of course, much remains to be done in all areas, primarily from the point of view of recognising the social significance of this work – the work of a teacher, a pedagogue. Without any doubt, we will definitely continue along this path.
Thank you very much.
(Leonid Govorov, grandson of Marshal of the Soviet Union Leonid Govorov, commander of the Leningrad Front, chair of the public council of the Museum of the Defence and Siege of Leningrad, raised the topic of preserving memory, the topic of developing the museum, which for him, like for many people of Leningrad, is of great personal significance. He recalled that, thanks to the support of the President, the museum, opened in 1946, received a new lease of life in 2019. But unfortunately, he said, at its current size the museum is not able to do justice to the events of the Battle of Leningrad, the defence and siege of Leningrad. He believes it is necessary to expand the area of the museum using some premises of the Ministry of Defence, for which there already was an agreement with the Ministry, and to make it a national museum, research and education centre like the Victory Museum on Poklonnaya Hill in Moscow, which works very closely with schoolchildren, youth and students, and hosts many interesting events.)
Vladimir Putin: Mr Govorov, you mentioned the museum on Poklonnaya Hill in Moscow. Over the past few years, it has really changed and is doing a lot of education work, basing it on interesting, accessible and striking materials, and doing it with talent. Considering its material resources, I just have to remind you that the museum on Poklonnaya Hill was basically created from scratch and was conceived as a museum from the very beginning.
I have to recall the sad history of this centre. And it is sad and tragic because in the course of the Leningrad Case [in the late 1940s – early 1950s], the museum of the defence and siege of Leningrad, which had already been created by that time, was actually completely destroyed. Its recreation began somewhere in the late 1980s, in 1986 or around this time. And gradually the city and federal authorities rightly began to pay more and more attention to this.
In recent years, indeed, some premises have been handed over, and this, of course, is not enough. This process is not easy, and I hope that together with the city authorities we will work on this, we will proceed along this path, but now, it seems to me, we need to use the premises that have been handed over to the museum.
Of course, you are also right. We must proceed along this path: the path towards creating a great national centre here. We will proceed step by step, without prejudice to the interests of the Ministry of Defence. However, we will definitely help you in the future.
Leonid Govorov: Thank you very much. We have set ourselves such a task. It is clear that it will be solved gradually.
Vladimir Putin: We and the city authorities will support you.
Leonid Govorov: Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you for the work you are doing. Thank you.
You had an outstanding ancestor: your grandfather was one of the best military commanders of World War II; a scrupulous, very thoughtful, caustic commander and a true military mathematician. You have something to be proud of.
And thank you for doing this professionally and passing it on to us and future generations, to the whole country; and I understand that you work with your colleagues in other republics of the former Soviet Union as well. This is very important, very important.
Thank you.
Leonid Govorov: Thank you very much.
Sergei Machinsky: Mr President, may I?
Sergei Machinsky, special representative of the Leningrad Region Governor in the special military operation zone, member of the Search Movement of Russia.
There was Victory, there was a trial, there was a sentence. If I may, before saying that not everyone remembered this, I would like to ask you to direct your attention to the screen for a few minutes and watch an excerpt of the film “Nuremberg” created on your instruction, which tells about the things that should never be forgotten.
Vladimir Putin: With pleasure. Thank you.
(A video plays.)
Sergei Machinsky: I have been in the special military operation zone continuously since last June, communicating not only with our military personnel, but also with people who live there. They are being killed not just by shells, they are being killed simply because they think differently. The entire family of my friend, an LPR officer, was killed in 2014 by militants of the Tornado battalion just because his father, a Soviet officer, did not want to accept those who came to power in Ukraine. The crimes are committed by the same people, under the same banners, just as cruelly, and the public has the right to know about these crimes.
My fellow searchers worked with the Investigative Committee for a long time as part of the No Statute of Limitations project in Russia, on the crimes that were committed during the Great Patriotic War. They are ready to continue this work now on the territory of the Donetsk and Lugansk people's republics. I want to ask, we would all like to ask you to give instructions to the Investigative Committee to continue this work, so that people also learn about the Nazis’ present-day crimes, so that they also go on trial in due time.
And speaking about the information element, what we are talking about, what many people in Russia are talking about now: we need to talk about the war, we need to talk about crimes openly and honestly. Let it be scary, let it be unpleasant, many do not want to see or know this, but we must talk about it, in full, without hiding, without being embarrassed, naming the names of the executioners and murderers precisely so that this never happens again.
We should make films and we should write books. In addition to public activists, I would like the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Digital Development to take part in this. We need to bring home to every resident of our country that fascism is not just a word. We need to hammer all traces of it into everyone’s brains like with the films “Come and See” and “Ordinary Fascism.” Every TV screen must shout this to everyone.
And we should not feel sorry for our children – we should not spare them by hiding the truth about that war. We should not try to protect their psyche by not telling them about the crimes that are being committed now. They see more on the internet. As for these age restrictions on films about the Great Patriotic War, I believe it is not the films that need to be restricted.
I would also like to say that the majority of our young people that are there know what they are fighting for. It is necessary to make sure people here know and understand what they are fighting for there.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Mr Machinsky, you have raised a very important issue, and we certainly need to watch the full-length version of this film. This is very important. Such films, such pieces preserve our historical memory. I have talked about the need for this.
As for the events you mentioned, the tragedy associated with the events in Ukraine indeed unfolded in 2014 after the anti-constitutional anti-state armed coup in Ukraine. As we know, we had to help the Crimeans in this context. Then the events in Donbass followed. In fact, the serious hostilities in Donbass have not stopped since 2014, and they included the use of heavy equipment, artillery, tanks and aviation. All this took place there.
Everything we are doing today, including the special military operation, is an attempt to end this war, as I have said many times. This is the essence of our operation. We also want to protect our people who live on these territories. These are our historical territories. As I have said, after the collapse of the Soviet Union… I will not give any assessments now – this is neither the place nor the time, but anyway, Russia accepted this situation despite the fact that these are our historical, Russian territories, but in terms of history we reconciled ourselves to it.
Nevertheless, we had to react to what was happening there after the coup d’état, when they actually began exterminating people living in those territories only because of their connection with Russian culture, Russian language and traditions of their people and their forefathers.
We tolerated it for a long time and tried to come to an agreement. As it has recently turned out, they were messing around with us; they were lying to us. This was not the first time this has happened to us. Yet we did everything in our power to settle the problem peacefully. It has become obvious now that it was an inherently impossible mission; the enemy was only preparing to bring this conflict to the hot phase. As I have said, there was no other way than to do what we are doing now.
As for crimes against civilians committed by the neo-Nazis, who have gained ground and are running the show in Ukraine, who seized power there as a result of the coup d’état… Everything that happened after that matters, but the initial root of the current power in Ukraine is the coup d’état. We must never forget this. But it is essential to record everything they are doing now, especially to civilians, and we will do it. Our Investigative Committee is doing this; it is not only recording facts but is also summing them up and giving it a legal assessment. We will certainly continue doing this.
Providing information support for all our actions and getting the truth across to people in Russia and in other countries, but above all to people in Ukraine is one of the main areas of our joint efforts. There are very many people in Ukraine who can see what is happening and have a correct understanding of the events, especially after what the current rulers started doing to civilians, when they created the so-called retreat-blocking detachments, like the ones used during World War II, and what they are doing to the Russian Orthodox Church. I have no doubt that they will not get away with it.
As for what you have proposed, this certainly must be done, and we will do it.
Thank you again, from the bottom of my heart. Let this be a lesson for all. Today marks 80 years since the siege of Leningrad was broken, and I would like to recite a poem about the medal For the Defence of Leningrad. It is also about your father, whose biography I know well, I have a book. Later, I will give you a report, so as not to take time today, from one of the organisations, the Eternally Living, in which we participate together with the city and district councils of veterans, and we are doing everything we can to bring up a generation that will defend us. (Recites the poem.)
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
As for your war comrades-in-arms from different regions of the former Soviet Union, from different Soviet republics, and as for the attempts to revive Nazism in those places, this has been going on, as you know. There have always been collaborators, traitors, always and everywhere. Unfortunately, we had such people in Russia too, suffice it to recall the so-called Russian Liberation Army and so on. We have been there. But we must anathematise them, and honour our fighters, the real heroes, whom we should not forget and put them on a pedestal. And we will always do that.
However, unfortunately, many countries, including in the former Soviet republics, including Ukraine, are glorifying Nazism now. Look what is happening in Latvia, for example. They hold annual SS marches there, openly, protected by the local law enforcement agencies. Those are former members of the SS units, and they are doing this openly, under the pretext – and I would like to emphasise this – that they allegedly fought for national independence.
Nothing can be an excuse for collaborating with the Nazis and fascists. Nothing at all. It is all a whitewash. In reality, they are traitors and Nazis. Their followers today are neo-Nazis. What else can be said about those who glorify Bandera in Ukraine, making him a national hero, and then march by the thousands through the central streets of Ukrainian cities? What else are they? This gives us every right to say that they are neo-Nazis because Bandera and his gang collaborated with Hitler and killed thousands of people. The German occupiers left them the dirty work; I will not list all the crimes that were committed by their hands. And what does this make those lauding them? They are neo-Nazis, and there is nothing else to say about them.
Thank you for preserving the memory of your comrades-in-arms, and we will do everything to take this baton from you.
Valentin Bogdanov: Mr President, I have one request: I have never attended the Victory Day parade in Moscow.
Vladimir Putin: I invite you.
Praskovya Vasilyeva: Mr President, allow me to follow up on what the Leningrad siege survivors said. They talked about the need for system-wide patriotic education of young people.
I am Praskovya Vasilyeva, and I represent the We Are Together campaign. You know this initiative well. In COVID times, we helped elderly people living alone, and now we help families of service personnel who are in the special military operation zone. It is essential for young people and the volunteer movement that we preserve the existing symbols of the Great Victory, including in Leningrad.
Mr President, during the latest meeting of the Russian Pobeda (Victory) Organising Committee, you supported the idea of drafting a comprehensive plan on marking the 80th anniversary of breaking the Nazi siege of Leningrad. Today, the day when the siege was broken, means the start to a new year for Pobeda volunteers, who will be guided by the slogan “Beyond May 9,” as is always the case. We will spend this year commemorating the lifting of the siege, with the final event scheduled for January 27 of next year, 2024.
It is critical for us, young people, to make sure that your instructions are heard, and that everyone gets down to organising these events in a responsible manner, putting their heart and soul into the effort. As volunteers, we can promise you that these events will certainly carry our personal touch.
Of course, young people today honour the symbols of the Great Victory. Still, we need new formats and information technology for promoting patriotic education of young people. For example, the Road of Life lifeline has become the main symbol of Leningrad’s victory. This road crossed Lake Ladoga. There were distance posts and commemorative signs installed along this road back in the 1960s. It has to be noted that the Road of Life has changed a lot for the better in recent years with the creation of outstanding facilities, including the Aviators’ House museum. It was created at your instruction, Mr President. It has emerged as a magnet, attracting young people and enabling them to get a feel for the history of the Great Patriotic War, including Leningrad under siege.
And now we know that the Road of Life will be modernised, to become a stunning, the world’s only open-air museum of this kind, where visitors will be able to learn personal stories of the people who lived under the siege, learn about the professions that were in demand in the besieged Leningrad, about the evacuation, about supplying Leningrad via the Road of Life and how the Road of Life saved thousands from starving to death. Modernisation of the Road of Life is an example of a symbol of the Great Victory becoming a unique, modern and interesting monument for Russians of all ages. It is a wonderful initiative.
But besides the big Road of Life across Ladoga, there was also a small Road of Life that very few people know about, across the Gulf of Finland. It connected two shores of the Gulf of Finland for civilians, but it also had great strategic importance for the military because it provided supplies for the islands in the outer part of the gulf. Thanks to supplies to those islands, our submarines and Soviet aviation were able to hold back the Finns and Germans at the western borders of Leningrad. Our volunteer movement would like to propose that, during the year when we mark 80 years since the complete liberation of Leningrad from the siege, the small Road of Life should become one more symbol of Leningrad’s victory and another widely known symbol for our younger generation.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: First of all, I want to note that I am very pleased that young people are equally involved in these issues as war veterans. It is worth a great deal because people of one generation understand each other better, hear each other and feel the strings that must be touched to create the right associations in a person’s soul. I want to thank you for doing this. This is the first.
Second, as concerns the small Road of Life on the islands of the Gulf of Finland, it is another heroic chapter in the history of the Great Patriotic War. Because the soldiers who defended our garrisons on the islands, including on Gogland (where I have been several times), demonstrated outstanding, extraordinary bravery. They were the last to leave and return to Leningrad. Those events are worth remembering and worth their own chapter in history. In fact, it was written by our heroic fighters during the Great Patriotic War. It just needs to be properly shaped and incorporated into the general context of the defence of Leningrad.
I fully agree with you. We will work on that, absolutely.
Thank you.
Shall we wrap up? No? Please, go ahead.
Valery Isakov: I run a private museum, Things from Besieged Leningrad.
I lived and went to School No. 181, which is not far from here, 20 metres across from the museum. My parents and I stayed in Leningrad during the siege. One day, I was admitted to the Botkin Hospital with a disorder caused by malnutrition. It was after the siege was broken. A German aircraft dropped a heavy 500-kg bomb on the hospital. Thankfully, it hit the garden outside the hospital, not the building itself. The hospital windows were shattered, and as a boy I had this spray of shards amid a beautiful sunny August day etched in my memory. Ten minutes later, my mother rushed into the ward. She saw the bent headboard of the iron hospital bed and a still hot fragment of the bomb on it, 10 centimetres away from my head. She kept it, and it started our museum called Things from Besieged Leningrad. We put my childhood toys and some of my parents’ documents on display as well. Then my wife, also a siege survivor, and I continued to collect items which formed the museum.
For 10 years now, we have been going to schools and vocational schools, which are now called colleges for some reason, even though we could have kept the Russian name, and speak to young people. This is important and something today's youth need, especially in our troubled times.
I always start by telling the children that unlike in other museums, they can and are welcome to touch things, because tactile memory – teachers will back me up on this – is important as well. We let children touch the exhibits, among them an authentic piece of bread from besieged Leningrad, which is a rare and valuable exhibit. We keep it in two jars, and it still smells. Children touch it. They touch that bomb fragment. Blockade ration cards, money from Leningrad, and toys from that time. Sometimes, we lend them to WWII-related exhibitions. We speak to children on holidays such as Defender of the Fatherland Day, the Day of Breaking the Siege of Leningrad, Victory Day and more.
Useful deeds are important for us, for the elderly if we want to prolong our lives and, of course, what we do is important for the younger generation. We tell them that they can throw away an old mobile phone, but never a piece of bread. We tell them to hold it in their hands. People died because they didn’t have enough of this bread. If you can’t eat it, give it to cats, dogs or birds. We teach them to be real Russians, real residents of Leningrad.
In this regard, I would like to see this patriotic work expand with the help of our outgoing generation. We, children of the siege, are the last generation that experienced this first-hand and maybe, thanks to my museum, someone else will remember more things and will let the youth know about them as well.
In this regard, I would like, first, to thank our regional administration, which supports the councils of veterans. I would like to say a few words about a new development, the “third-age” universities. That is, instead of wasting time sitting on benches, men playing dominoes, women gossiping, elderly people are busy attending all kinds of lectures by medical doctors, going on all kinds of tours, including tours related to the siege of Leningrad. There are all kinds of clubs which help prolong life and increase the average life expectancy in our country, which, unfortunately, was lagging for a long time. In addition, it is good for the young people, because communicating with living witnesses of historical events, such as my generation and older generations, lets them learn a lot. This is one thing.
Another thing I would want is to see the return of the books that our pre-war and post-war generations, the generation of Mr President, had to study at school, back into the school programme. I mean, to bring back to schools the books The Young Guard by Alexander Fadeyev, The Son of the Artillery Man by Konstantin Simonov, How the Steel was Tempered by Nikolai Ostrovsky, Tales of the Don by Mikhail Sholokhov, The Russian Character by Alexei Tolstoy, Hot Snow by Yury Bondarev, and The Brest Fortress by Sergei Smirnov. These works should not be optional and their choice should not be up to the teachers. They must be essential for developing the character and social responsibility of the young people, of the succeeding generations.
In conclusion, I would like to recall a poem by wonderful poet Vera Inber, who spent the entire duration of the siege in Leningrad. There is a line, “The history wrote the date January 18 in gold in the pages of its calendar.”
So let us remember this date, commemorate it and raise the future generations to be no worse than us and worthy of us. Let us be worthy of our ancestors’ memory.
Thank you.
And in conclusion, Mr President, here is a small gift for you: a copy of a permission to be on the street after the air raid alert and a ration card for bread, both from the siege times. This is a gift from our museum.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr Isakov, for your work and for creating an entire private museum. St Petersburg has more than one private museum, which shows its residents’ special attitude to their city and their history. It means that they are more sensitive to everything related to the tragedy of the Great Patriotic War and the defence of besieged Leningrad. So thank you very much for that.
Naturally, I will talk to the Ministry of Education about the need to return Soviet classics, which form the public historical mentality of entire generations, to schools. You are absolutely right, we need to think about it and work on it.
Valery Isakov: Also, the support of the councils of veterans at various levels and the so-called universities of the third age, which is a wonderful thing of the present time. Both we and your parents will live long and be of use to the next generations.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you. We will do it. As for your wish to improve this work, we will consider it an instruction. We will work on it.
Once again, I congratulate all of you on this wonderful and important event, the 80th anniversary of breaking the siege of Leningrad.
Thank you and all the best.
Geography
Saint Petersburg
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Persons
Beglov Alexander
Gutsan Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 18, 2023, 13:45
Text version