Events
Vladimir Putin’s concluding remarks at the second plenary session of the Russia-Africa Summit
July 28, 2023
18:55
St Petersburg
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: I would like to tell you, friends, that our efforts were not in vain – we worked in a businesslike and truly constructive spirit, in the traditional atmosphere of mutual understanding and, I would like to emphasise, trust and sincere friendship that characterises Russia-Africa cooperation.
We had a meaningful and interested exchange of views on the entire range of strategic cooperation between Russia and African nations.
In addition, during plenary sessions, numerous bilateral meetings, thematic roundtable discussions and panel sessions, we reviewed in detail current global problems, issues of world economics and politics, food and energy security, stable and sustainable development and cultural and humanitarian cooperation.
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
We determined the main areas of our further joint work and mapped out our plans for enhancing foreign policy coordination, building up trade and investment flows and promoting industrial cooperation between Russia and African countries.
We talked about the training of top professionals for African national economies.
We drafted and approved the main declaration of the second Russia-Africa Summit and a number of thematic declarations – on preventing an arms race in space, cooperation in international information security, and enhancing cooperation in countering terrorism. In addition, the plan of action of the Russia-Africa Partnership Forum for 2023–2026 is ready for adoption. Colleagues, if nobody objects, let us consider these most important documents adopted. (Applause.) No objections at all? Thank you.
In general, we highly value the results of our joint work at the summit. I am sure the achieved results are creating a good foundation for further deepening the Russia-Africa partnership in the interests of our nations’ prosperity and wellbeing.
Thank you very much for your joint work today in this format.
We still have a number of events ahead.
Thank you.
See also
Russia–Africa Summit
July 28, 2023
See also
Documents adopted and signed following the second Russia-Africa Summit
July 28, 2023
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: July 28, 2023, 18:55
Text version