Events
Frigate Admiral Gorshkov started combat duty
Prior to the ship's departure for a long-distance naval mission, the President heard reports by Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu and Commander of the frigate Admiral of the Soviet Fleet Gorshkov, Igor Krokhmal.
January 4, 2023
13:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
The frigate Admiral Flota Sovetskogo Soyuza Gorshkov is a modern multi-purpose ship with guided missile weapons, designed to resolve challenges in the far seas and ocean zones. It was accepted by the Navy in 2018 and confirmed for the use of Zircon hypersonic missiles in 2021.
* * *
Vladimir Putin: Comrades, good afternoon.
Good afternoon, Mr Shoigu.
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Good afternoon, Mr President.
Happy New Year!
Vladimir Putin: Happy New Year! Thank you. You too.
Today we have an important, if not landmark, event: the frigate Admiral Gorshkov is departing for a long-distance naval mission. There is nothing unusual here, this is common practice; but this time the ship is equipped with the cutting-edge Zircon hypersonic missile system, which has no analogue – this is a sea-based hypersonic system, and other new generation weapons.
We are now communicating primarily with the military, but here and now, as they say, I want to first thank the specialists of the military-industrial complex who have developed and begun to mass-produce this unique weapon. As I said, it has no analogue in any country in the world.
I know that such powerful weapons will make it possible to reliably defend Russia from potential external threats and will help ensure our national interests.
I would like to stress that we will continue to build up the combat potential of the Armed Forces and produce advanced weapons and equipment that will guard Russia's security in the coming decades. This is a promising weapon.
I would like to wish the ship’s crew success in their service for the good of the Fatherland.
I would like to ask the Minister of Defence to report on the readiness of the ship to carry out the assigned tasks.
Sergei Shoigu: Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation,
Today, the frigate Admiral of the Soviet Fleet Gorshkov, with Zircon hypersonic missiles on board, is embarking on a long-distance naval mission across the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, as well as the Mediterranean Sea.
The frigate Admiral of the Soviet Fleet Gorshkov is a modern multi-purpose ship with guided missile weapons designed to resolve challenges in the far seas and ocean zones. This vessel, armed with Zircon missiles, is capable of inflicting pinpoint and powerful strikes against an enemy at sea and on land. At the same time, one feature of the Zircon hypersonic missiles is the ability to reliably overcome today’s advanced air defence and missile defence systems. The missile’s flight speed exceeds Mach 9, and the range is over 1,000 kilometres.
The main objectives during this mission will be focused on countering any threats to Russia, maintaining regional peace and stability together with friendly countries. During the exercises and training, the crew will practice the use of hypersonic weapons and long-range cruise missiles in various environmental conditions.
Commander of the ship, please report on you readiness for the mission.
Commander of the frigate Admiral of the Soviet Fleet Gorshkov Igor Krokhmal: Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation,
The commander of the frigate Admiral of the Soviet Fleet Gorshkov, Captain 1st Rank Igor Krokhmal is reporting.
The ship went through the full cycle of preparations for its mission. It was equipped with ammunition for the missiles in the Zircon and Caliber systems, air defence systems, torpedo weapons, and artillery. The crew of the ship is ready to carry out the tasks of combat duty.
Vladimir Putin: I am glad. Congratulations. This is a very large team effort that led to excellent and expected result.
Begin completing your objectives.
Igor Krokhmal: Yes, sir.
Vladimir Putin: May there be seven feet under the keel.
Topics
Armed Forces
Persons
Shoigu Sergei
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 4, 2023, 13:40
Text version