Events
Video address on opening of Academy of Artistic Industries at the Tavrida art cluster
May 27, 2023
21:30
Video address on opening of Academy of Artistic Industries at the Tavrida art cluster.
Vladimir Putin: Friends,
I am delighted to welcome you and congratulate you on this exciting and important event: the opening of the Academy of Artistic Industries at the Tavrida art cluster.
A new point of attraction that brings together new talents – architects, musicians, designers, representatives of other creative professions from all Russian regions – has emerged on the map of Crimea, the map of our country. You will make another step towards fulfilling your dreams and ideas under the guidance of the best professionals.
Over the past five years, the Tavrida Forum held in Kapsel Bay, Sudak Region, created a complex of opportunities for creative young people. The establishment of a year-round educational centre will raise this development to a new level.
It is symbolic that this project, which, as I believe, will seriously contribute to the development of artistic industries, has found a home in Crimea.
Many of our outstanding compatriots – writers, poets and artists – found inspiration and created their best works here.
Crimea is a special place and it undoubtedly plays a special role in Russian culture. I think you must sense this unique atmosphere, know and value its great legacy and are ready to create and move forward while drawing on old traditions.
Culture and art, the spheres which are called on to unite people, are facing a geopolitical confrontation today. Attempts are being made to cancel everything that has to do with Russia, erase it from the heritage of civilisation. In fact, those who stand behind this campaign deprive themselves, their peoples, their citizens, of the opportunity to appreciate true masterpieces.
We deeply respect the legacy of world culture. It is impossible to even imagine any attempts to cancel it in our country. But looking at what is going on in the world we increasingly come to realise that we do not need guidelines or standards imposed from the outside which suppress our distinctive national character and originality.
We are living in the time of self-determination and struggle for the right to be ourselves.
All of this equally applies to culture. Artistic ideas and exploration definitely need freedom. Now a space that allows people to create freely has been established in Tavrida.
We must have a caring, respectful attitude to our roots and origins, an aspiration to rethink, bring up to date and at the same time preserve the unique sensibility that has always been characteristic of Russian culture, its special value-based message about the power of compassion, mutual respect, and the spiritual and moral foundations of great importance.
I am confident that you, young, brave and creative people, daring in the best sense of the word, will be able to make a statement in culture, unlock your talents as much as possible, set new trends, and add to the rich legacy of our culture.
The Tavrida art cluster, which received a powerful impetus from the year-round Academy of Artistic Industries and this whole educational space for young people will produce many outstanding new talents.
Friends, I wish you every success.
Geography
Republic of Crimea
Topics
Culture
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: May 27, 2023, 21:30
Text version