Events
Meeting with President of Uganda Yoweri Kaguta Museveni
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Uganda Yoweri Kaguta Museveni at the Expoforum venue.
July 27, 2023
19:40
St Petersburg
1 of 6
With President of Uganda Yoweri Kaguta Museveni. Photo: Vyacheslav Prokofyev, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am delighted to meet with you again. Last time we met in Sochi during the first Russia–Africa Summit. I am grateful to you for bringing the Ugandan delegation to St Petersburg today and for taking part in our second summit.
I said many times that holding this forum is very important for us. The comprehensive development of relations with African countries in politics, in security, and in the trade, economic and humanitarian spheres is an invariable priority of Russian foreign policy. And Uganda, of course, is among Russia's key partners on the African continent.
Our countries have a long history of friendship and mutually beneficial cooperation. Last year, we marked 60 years of our diplomatic relations. Our countries have established and are maintaining a political dialogue and ties between parliaments and parties.
We also see positive changes in trade. Despite a minor decline in 2022, mutual trade increased more than fivefold in January to April 2023 year on year. It is a positive trend.
We maintain close cooperation on the humanitarian track. In February this year, you hosted a delegation of the Federal Service for the Oversight of Consumer Protection and Welfare (Rospotrebnadzor) led by its head, Anna Popova, who has joined us here today. As per the agreements reached on expanding our sanitary and epidemiological cooperation, here at the summit, we will deliver to Uganda a cutting-edge mobile laboratory on the platform of the KAMAZ truck, which can conduct up to 3,500 tests a day for any infections, including the most dangerous ones.
In November 2022, a Russian culture festival was held in Uganda. We are grateful to you for supporting that event. There are plans to open a Russian spiritual and education centre in Kampala. We continue to train personnel for Uganda; about 4,000 Ugandan citizens have received education in our country. We have more than doubled the quota for Ugandan students for the 2023/2024 academic year. Under a programme underway in the Republic of Tatarstan, 218 scholarships have also been approved for the Ugandans who are undergoing vocational technical training.
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
Russia and Uganda stand together on the international stage. This stance is based on their commitment to the policy of creating a fair multipolar world, and we attach great importance to the further coordination of our efforts in this sphere, especially since you will chair of the Non-Aligned Movement next year.
Mr President, I am delighted to welcome you and your delegation to St Petersburg. Thank you.
President of the Republic of Uganda Yoweri Kaguta Museveni: Your Excellency,
I thank you very much on behalf of our delegation for meeting us today but also for this forum. As I told you when we met before, and as I will be saying in some of my speeches, the relationship between the Soviet Union and Africa was crucial for the liberation of Africa. As I told you in South Africa, by 1900 the whole of the African continent had been colonised, except for Ethiopia. There were two big events which happened soon after that. One was the formation of the African National Congress in South Africa in 1912. That was the first time Africans started organising to liberate Africa. Then in 1917 the Communists took over power in Russia and they were the first international group to support us. Later on, they were joined by China in 1949. That formed a solid anti-colonial force. So, even when all these things were happening, the Soviet people were the first who stood with us when we were fighting against colonialism. Therefore, this is the starting point.
Now coming to modern times, we can cooperate in the economic development because there is big potential, and we have already started. Thank you very much for the laboratory. And I thank you for the scholarships. Even in the past we had many of our students studying here. But now, we propose new areas like, for instance, the area of refinery and the exploration for petroleum products as well as oil, which we can export as crude, but also refine it for the East African market. But Russian companies can also take part in exploration for more oil in our area. Then we have got the pipeline to the ocean for crude oil, in which we are involved with Total, the French company, and some Chinese companies, but Russian companies can also come in and invest in that East African crude pipeline because it can transport the oil of not only Uganda but even South Sudan and Congo, Congo-Kinshasa.
We have also agreed with the Russian groups on building a nuclear power station for generating electricity. And that is going on, and I am very happy with that. Then we have fertilisers, very big potential for phosphates, and for potassium, and also for ammonia. I would like to invite Russian companies, if they can, to take part in that. Now regarding fertilisers, we use 300,000 tonnes per year.
We have built electric vehicles in Uganda; we have already built them but we would like to work with Russia, if possible, on the issue of electric batteries. We have got lithium, the raw materials, the rare earth, but if you can work with us on the electric batteries, so that we do not waste money reporting those. We have the raw materials also for that, and Russia has got good experience in that area.
Space and space science. We have trained our people and are training more people, and we can train more people in Russia so that we build our own satellite because it would solve so many problems, with the environment and even security, to see the forests, which are being degraded, the national parks, also for looking for minerals, so we would be very happy if Russia was to work with us on the issue of the satellite.
Now, this is an idea which I want to put to your Excellency. You see, the problem of Africa since its independence – Africa had many problems in the last 600 years: we had slavery, then we had the colonialism, then after independence we have had neo-colonialism, and we have been struggling with that. But one facet of neo-colonialism and colonialism was Africa being confined to producing only raw materials, crops, like coffee, and minerals. I can give you an example: the global business for coffee is worth $460 billion. That is the value of the coffee business in the world. But of those $460 billion the coffee producing countries of the whole world share only $25 billion and Africa shares only $2.4 billion out of $460 billion. This issue is the biggest stunting factor why the African economies are stunted; they do not grow, because all the value is taken by other people. Germany earns more from coffee than the whole of Africa. Germany earns $6.85 billion from coffee, while Africa earns only $2.4 – 2.5 billion. This is the big scandal. So, what I want to propose to Russia and China is to discourage as a policy the importing of raw materials from Africa, to instead work with the Africans to add value at source. This would within a very short time transform the economies of Africa from low- and mid-income to high- and middle-high income because we see from the example of Uganda that everything is depressed now; production is high but we are still producing raw materials.
And what we want is, first of all, procurement: for somebody to buy processed end products, as a policy. Because if the European Union imports unprocessed coffee, it enters the European Union with zero tax, without a tax, but at some point, if you add value to coffee, you add a tax of 17%. So it is necessary to block the entry into Europe of processed coffee. To go from zero tax for raw materials to added value. If China and Russia were to follow this policy, in some of these countries the economy would grow within a very short time. It is bad economics on the side of Western countries. You see, for instance, if we were to export processed products to the USA or to Europe, and we earned more money, the purchasing power would go up, we would have more money, and we would buy more European products. It would be better for everybody. So that is what I want propose to you. If you can look at it, it would definitely be a game changer.
There are many investment opportunities in Uganda for Russian companies, like, for instance, in the medical industry: the vaccines, diagnostics, pharmaceuticals. We have our own groups working on those but it would be good to work with Russian companies.
These are the main points which I think we can look at. On the military side, we buy quite a bit of Russian equipment, and it has helped us a lot to stabilise the situation. That is why Uganda is an island of peace in that part of the world. I think we are now the biggest accommodator of refugees in the whole of Africa.
See also
Plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum
July 27, 2023
Geography
Uganda
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2023, 19:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Mozambique Filipe Jacinto Nyusi
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Mozambique Filipe Jacinto Nyusi on the sidelines of the Russia-Africa Summit.
July 27, 2023
14:50
St Petersburg
3 of 7
Meeting with President of Mozambique Filipe Jacinto Nyusi. Photo: Alexei Danichev, RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends,
Welcome to St Petersburg. I want to start by saying a few well-known facts that are nevertheless very important. Russia and Mozambique are bound by strong links of friendship and cooperation that took shape during the times when the people of Mozambique fought for their independence. We established our diplomatic relations in 1975.
Mr President, we value and share your ambition to strengthen the multidimensional ties between our nations.
Russia and Mozambique are advancing their political dialogue. Last May, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, who is sitting to my right, visited Maputo, and in July, Secretary of the Russian Security Council Nikolai Patrushev also visited your capital.
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
The Russian and Mozambican parliaments maintain active contacts and exchange visits. Our legislative bodies founded friendship groups. The All-Russian political party United Russia and the Mozambique Liberation Front, the party that you lead, have also established links.
The trade between our countries grew by 14.5 percent in 2022. In January-April 2023, the positive dynamics persisted, with 35-percent growth. We have noted good prospects in gas production, geological exploration, electricity generation, agriculture and fishing.
The Intergovernmental Commission on Economic, Scientific and Technical Cooperation is focused on strengthening trade and economic relations. We are expanding the legal framework of our bilateral cooperation. Documents on intellectual property, geological projects, fishing and innovation will be signed on the sidelines of this summit.
We continue to assist Mozambique with training qualified personnel at Russian higher education institutions. About 3,000 Mozambicans have graduated from Soviet and Russian universities. Since 2020, we have more than doubled the quota for tuition-free study of Mozambican citizens in Russia. In the 2023‒2024 academic year, we will allocate 75 scholarships.
Mr President, we value constructive collaboration with Mozambique in the international arena, including support by Mozambican colleagues for Russian initiatives at the United Nations Organisation. In 2023–2024, Mozambique is a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. We are expecting to coordinate our actions at the UN Security Council still further and collaborate effectively to address important global and regional issues. Our foreign ministries have already organised consultations on the relevant issues.
Mr President, friends, welcome to St Petersburg once again.
President of MozambiqueFilipe Jacinto Nyusi (retranslated): Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues.
I can confirm that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov visited Maputo, and we were delighted to welcome him there.
Mr Putin, first of all, I would like to thank you for the invitation and for another opportunity to visit your wonderful country and this magnificent city. You were born in this city, and I can say honestly that I hold it dear.
This summit is taking place at the highest level, and we are happy that we can discuss issues of cooperation between our countries today.
I would like to note once again that, as Africans, we are grateful for this opportunity to express our opinion. At the same time, I would like to publicly thank you for the support accorded us when our country was elected a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. Indeed, this is very significant: we were elected unanimously. This amounted to serious support. Indeed, this is very important for us.
We have extremely well-developed political and diplomatic relations. Various visits involving Russian delegations took place in Mozambique, and all our discussions were of an in-depth nature. I would like to note the work of the Russian Ambassador in Maputo who collaborates with our Ministry of Foreign Affairs very closely, and he addresses multiple issues that exist.
Our countries maintain very strong cooperation in a number of spheres, primarily defence and education. Russian enterprises operate on the territory of Mozambique. Mr President, I would like to thank you for all this in my opening remarks.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
See also
Plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum
July 27, 2023
Geography
Mozambique
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2023, 14:50
Text versionEvents
Answer to a question from Channel One journalist
On the sidelines of the Russia-Africa Summit, the President answered a question from a Channel One journalist on the situation in the special military operation zone.
July 27, 2023
14:55
St Petersburg
Question: Mr President, can I ask you a question about the Ukrainian counteroffensive? Many experts in the West have been saying these past few days that the decisive stage in Ukraine’s counteroffensive is about to begin or is even underway already, while everything that happened before that was nothing and that now they are going to “show us” what is what.
Have you witnessed any attempts by Ukraine to step up military action and is this really the decisive stage? Overall, what is your assessment of the situation on the frontline? Can I also ask you to provide details on the casualties on both sides, both for Russia and Ukraine? Can you share the latest data, please?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: As we have already said, and as confirmed by the actual action along the line of contact, the so-called counteroffensive, this broad counteroffensive, started on June 4, 2023. This is an obvious fact, demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that the Ukrainian Armed Forces have engaged their so-called strategic reserves.
As for the past few days, we can confirm that combat action has entered its intensive phase, to a significant extent. The clashes are primarily concentrated in what they call in the West the direction of the main attack – the Zaporozhye sector. Yesterday, there was serious military action within the area of responsibility of the 810th brigade of the Black Sea’s Naval Infantry and the 71st Regiment from the 42nd division of the Southern Military District’s 58th Army.
I can tell you without any exaggeration that our soldiers and officers have demonstrated mass heroism on a vast scale. The enemy used armoured machinery in large numbers by sending 50 pieces of military hardware into battle. Of them, 39 units of equipment, including 26 tanks and 13 armoured personnel carriers, have been destroyed. The personnel of the units I mentioned earlier destroyed 60 percent of them, while our combat pilots destroyed the other 40 percent.
Today, at my instruction, our troops will be awarded state decorations directly in the area of hostilities. I have already instructed the Defence Ministry to draft proposals for bestowing honorary designations on these units. The enemy has not succeeded in any of the sectors of combat activity. All attempts at the counteroffensive have been stopped. The enemy has been forced to retreat with substantial losses.
Today, they tried to recover the damaged assets, as well as pick up the wounded and casualties after leaving them on the battlefield yesterday but were also dispersed. This is the current situation as of this moment.
Question: Can I ask you to share the losses?
Vladimir Putin: Of course, apart from the military hardware, the adversary sustained multiple casualties of over 200 people. Unfortunately, we lost people too, but the difference is overwhelming with many times fewer casualties on our side. In fact, our casualties amount to less than 10 percent of the enemy’s losses. Let me reiterate and emphasise that everything that happened over the past 24 hours demonstrates the mass heroism of our soldiers and officers at its best.
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
Topics
Armed Forces
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2023, 14:55
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Chairperson of the African Union, President of the Union of the Comoros Azali Assoumani and Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat
Vladimir Putin held a trilateral meeting with Chairperson of the African Union and President of the Union of the Comoros Azali Assoumani and Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat at the Expoforum Centre.
July 27, 2023
11:45
St Petersburg
5 of 8
Meeting with Chairperson of the African Union, President of the Union of the Comoros Azali Assoumani and Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat. Photo: Sergei Bobylev, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, Mr Chairperson, I am delighted to meet you again.
First of all, I would like to say that we view the African Union as a leading regional organisation that shapes the modern security structure on the continent and paves the way for Africa to take its rightful place in the system of global economic links.
We support the Union’s involvement in the work of leading international associations. I would like to remind you that Russia was one of the first to react positively to the initiative advanced by the President of Senegal, who preceded you in this position, for granting the African Union full membership in the G20. We hope that the decision will be adopted at the G20 summit in New Delhi in September.
As before, Russia is ready to help strengthen African countries’ sovereignty and contribute to Africa becoming a key partner in the new system of the multipolar world order. We will give priority attention to these issues at the summit, which opens today. We will also discuss practical decisions on building up trade and economic cooperation, ensuring food and energy security, and developing national healthcare systems.
The planned adoption of the declaration of the second Russia–Africa Summit and the Russia–African Union action plan for 2023–2024 will help launch practical efforts in the areas mentioned above and many others.
Friends, colleagues,
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
Despite the difficulties created by the coronavirus pandemic and the illegal sanctions imposed against Russia, we have ensured the growth of our trade and economic ties. Our mutual trade reached approximately 18 billion US dollars in 2022 and increased by nearly 35 percent in the first six months of 2023.
Russia remains a reliable food supplier for Africa. In 2022, Russian food exports amounted to 4.7 billion US dollars. Many large Russian companies are successfully working in Africa. The key spheres of our cooperation include energy, subsoil use, agriculture. There are good opportunities for cooperation in research and technology, education and culture.
We highly value our relations with the Union of the Comoros. They are based on the principles of mutual respect and a balance of each other’s interests and have a development potential in a number of spheres. Of course, we are open to cooperation with your country in all areas.
Thank you.
Chairperson of the African Union, President of the Comoros Azali Assoumani (retranslated): Mr President of the Russian Federation, Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat.
It is a great honour for me to speak here and I thank you wholeheartedly.
Every time I come here, not just for the opening of the summit, we can feel the brotherly welcome, so every time, we want to go to this beautiful country again. Thank you for your welcome, for organising the summit, and for all the decisions made to hold it successfully. This is an excellent platform to discuss relations between Russia and Africa, and the Comoros in particular, as you have noted.
First, allow me to say, Mr President, that Russia is a very important partner for Africa. It is said that a friend in need is a friend indeed, and in times of need, Russia has always stood with Africa regardless of the problems that arose, including its struggle for independence. Russia has always been there, despite all the difficulties that Africa has been through.
Russia’s investment in African countries set many countries on the path of development. And, Mr President, in this context you may rest assured that we are sincerely grateful for this.
Mr President, this meeting is a very good occasion to discuss African issues, regional issues, and the relations that should develop in the interests of the Russian Federation and in the interests of the continent, but also in the interests of the entire world, because Russia is a global power. So, this is not only about Africa, but about the world on the whole. We have come here to talk about this. We are ready to discuss these issues with Russia, because these are our partners, and this is in the interests of Africa or about partners in Africa.
Mr President, today the world is facing a lot of economic and climate-related challenges, which all of us recognise. Unfortunately, not everyone understands that all the resources we have must be used for the prosperity of humanity. Many suffer from deprivation and poverty. It is not only about climate, but about security as well. Today the world is almost on the brink of destruction, and the African countries are suffering from this. We are falling victim to this policy. African countries are suffering gravely. We are suffering from the deficit and other problems, unfortunately, as well as from Africans’ migration to other countries.
All this is largely caused by the problems of climate change; these are natural problems. But when it comes to security problems, many African countries are facing security problems: we are talking about wars between states.
Unfortunately, problems related to climate and security are forcing us, the leaders of African states, to deal with very complex issues. Of course, nothing is simple in life, but Mr President, I want to say once again that climate and security issues are the most important ones. But also important are energy issues, how we can help each other, how we can ensure African autonomy – the coronavirus taught us a good lesson – of course, it’s a little bit easier.
Africa has huge potential but we need help to realise it.
Again, Mr President, going back to security issues, we have intra-African problems in this area, but as I said, of course, the problem between Russia and Ukraine – we are not turning a blind eye to that because we have partner relations with both countries. We are seeing negative consequences that are reverberating around the world, including Africa. So, we are here to try to find some solution that can satisfy both Russia, a fraternal country, and also the African continent.
Once again, Mr President, let me thank you for the reception. Thank you for the organisation of the event. We are at your disposal; we are always ready to meet with you in order to create a system of relations and co-operation that is reliable for both countries. We are also ready to make changes to it, because, understandably, the world is constantly changing. Obviously, a programme created 20 years ago is not applicable today. We have come to understand how we can adapt to emerging realities in order to achieve significant results and serve for the benefit of our peoples.
Once again, Mr President, thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Merci beaucoup.
Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat (retranslated): Your Excellency, Mr President of the Russian Federation. Mr Chairperson of the African Union.
For my part, allow me also to thank you for your warm welcome in the marvelous city of St Petersburg, which was founded more than three centuries ago by Peter the Great, the great ruler of your country.
Four years ago, we met at the first Russia-Africa Summit. I think that now we have a wonderful opportunity to thank you and to discuss our partnership.
Peace and development are priorities, the issues that worry the African Union in the first place. Africa is facing a serious security challenge, first all, the fight against terrorism, which is a really destabilising factor for an enormous part of the African continent. We would like partnership in this sphere to be more prominent and thus help Africa defeat terrorism.
We will take part in the Economic and Humanitarian Forum.
Africa is also facing problems due to the lack of stability, but we are also dealing with a food crisis that is partly provoked by the war between Russia and Ukraine. I think this is a chance to discuss this topic in order to understand what we can do, because Africa is being negatively impacted by this conflict.
Two years ago we held the second meeting on diplomatic consultations with Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow. Surely you remember: in 2019, we signed a memorandum of understanding [between the Russian Government and the African Union on the foundations of relations and cooperation] and are doing everything to implement it in practical terms.
Africa’s priorities are peace and security, development of agriculture and industrialisation, but also energy, because any disruption in the international system affects Africa both in terms of energy and food. Let me remind you that the Russian Federation remains an important partner for Africa, in particular in terms of personnel training: thousands of Africans have been educated here, and they are the ones who are now engaged in economic, social and cultural development on our continent, and we would like this partnership to develop even more.
Let us also not forget Russia’s constant support in the struggle for the liberation of Africa, in the fight against apartheid and Russia’s support in the UN Security Council on African issues.
The African continent is home to 1.5 billion people, so their voice is important both within G20 and in general: African issues are often discussed without Africa, so we would like to request your support within various organisations that make decisions on Africa at the global level.
Fertilisers and energy are among Africa’s priorities, and I think this is a good opportunity to discuss this issue and strengthen our partnership.
Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Comoro Islands
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2023, 11:45
Text versionEvents
Gala reception for participants in the second Russia–Africa Summit
Vladimir Putin delivered a speech at the gala reception hosted in honour of the participants in the second Russia–Africa Summit.
July 27, 2023
21:10
St Petersburg
14 of 14
Vladimir Putin delivered a speech at the gala reception for participants in the second Russia–Africa Summit. Photo: Mikhail Metzel, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
I would like to extend my heartfelt welcome once again to the participants in the second Russia–Africa Summit and the Russia–Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum.
Friends, we are happy that heads of state and government and leading politicians and government officials from practically all African countries have arrived in St Petersburg. The leaders of executive bodies of African integration associations are also present here.
Such a representative range of participants gathered in our northern capital, as we call St Petersburg, convincingly illustrates the mutual desire of Russia and African countries to expand and deepen mutually beneficial ties and contacts. This is also a real confirmation of our common intentions to take Russia-Africa relations to a new, more advanced level in politics, security, in the economic and social spheres.
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
We are convinced that the St Petersburg summit will help us reach this main goal in full measure. We are looking to the future with optimism because Russia-Africa relations rest on the firm foundation of friendship and mutual assistance, an accumulated positive experience of our joint work and a truly rich and eventful history.
At one time, the Soviet Union rendered African nations tangible support in the struggle against colonialism, racism and apartheid, in the development of statehood and in the consolidation and protection of independence. It helped them lay the foundations of their national economies. It is enough to recall the construction of important infrastructure, energy, industrial and agricultural facilities, of hospitals and schools. Assistance was granted to form and equip combat-ready armed forces. Hundreds of thousands of Africans graduated from our universities. The knowledge and professions they acquired – engineers, economists, doctors, lawyers, to name a few – have brought and are still bringing practical benefits to African states. Russia will continue to expand on these kinds of traditions.
It is equally important to note that today Russia and the African countries stand together for the formation of a just, multipolar world order based on the principles of sovereign equality of states, non-interference in their internal affairs, and respect for peoples' right to determine their own destiny.
And, of course, our country will continue to make a real contribution to settling current crises and preventing the emergence of new hotbeds of tension on the continent, fighting terrorism and extremism, pandemics and hunger, and addressing issues of environmental, food and information security.
Many people in Africa know this saying: “If you want to walk fast – go alone. If you want to walk far – go together.” We are indeed ready to work for the future hand in hand with our African friends, and to build truly strategic interaction and partnership.
<…>
See also
Plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum
July 27, 2023
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2023, 21:10
Text versionEvents
Plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum
Vladimir Putin took part in the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum.
July 27, 2023
13:40
St Petersburg
Also taking part in the session were Chairperson of the African Union and President of the Union of the Comoros Azali Assoumani, Patriarch Kirill
of Moscow and All Russia, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the African Export–Import Bank Benedict Oramah, and President of the New Development Bank Dilma Rousseff.
Director of the Russian Academy of Sciences Institute for African Studies Irina Abramova moderated the discussion.
The forum’s main topic was Technology and Security in the Name of Sovereign Development for the Benefit of Humankind.
* * *
Irina Abramova, moderator of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum plenary session, Director of the Institute for African Studies at the Russian Academy of Sciences. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
Irina Abramova: Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and friends.
We are beginning the plenary session of the second Russia- Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum.
I would like to give the floor to the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Mr Assoumani, heads of state and government, high representatives of African countries, ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to begin by welcoming all of you to St Petersburg. Thank you for accepting our invitation and coming here. In Russia, you are among friends and like-minded people.
We have a high-profile line-up of participants in the plenary session of the Economic and Humanitarian Forum. I believe it is symbolic that the Russia-Africa Summit starts its programme with this important event. Its tagline is Technology and Security in the Name of Sovereign Development for the Benefit of Humankind, which is highly topical. Of course, we will discuss all matters on the financial, trade, investment, educational and social agendas in the context of the rapid ongoing changes around the world in terms of digital technology and information. Improving the wellbeing of our people, improving their living standards and resolving the challenges they face in their everyday lives is our main objective.
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
I would like to say that many useful and constructive discussions are being held at the forum’s industry-related sessions on energy, logistics, transport, agriculture, finance and healthcare. The participants discuss promising ideas and proposals on new mutually beneficial joint projects, specific practical agreements and commercial contracts.
Africa’s potential is obvious to everyone. For example, the average annual GDP growth on the continent in the past 20 years was 4–4.5 percent, which exceeds the world’s average. Africa’s population is approaching 1.5 billion and is growing faster than anywhere else in the world. It is also notable that the middle class, which creates the principal demand for modern goods and services, is growing faster in Africa than in the majority of other parts of the world.
Russia’s government, business and the public are sincerely interested in further deepening multifaceted trade, investment and humanitarian ties with the continent, which meets the needs of all our countries and promotes stable growth and prosperity. I would like to note that Russia-Africa trade reached 18 billion US dollars last year. It is an obvious result of the Russia–Africa Summit held in Sochi. I have no doubt that by working together we will be able to increase our trade substantially in the near future. Incidentally, in the first six months of 2023 alone, our export-import transactions with African countries increased by over one third. The structure of our trade looks good as well: machinery, equipment, chemicals and food account for over 50 percent of Russia’s exports to Africa.
We are aware of the importance of uninterrupted supply of food products to African countries. This is vital for their socioeconomic development and for maintaining political stability. This is why we have always given and will continue to give special attention to supplying wheat, barley, corn and other grain crops to our African friends, including as part of humanitarian aid provided under the UN World Food Programme.
Friends, the numbers speak for themselves: last year Russia’s trade with African countries in agricultural products increased by 10 percent to $6.7 billion, and has already demonstrated record growth in January-June of this year by increasing by 60 percent. Russia exported 11.5 million tonnes of grain to Africa in 2022, and almost 10 million tonnes in the first six months of 2023. All this has been taking place despite the illegal sanctions imposed on our exports, which constitute a serious impediment for exporting Russian food, complicating transport, logistics, insurance and bank transactions.
We are witnessing a paradox. On the one hand, the West seeks to block our grain and fertiliser exports, while accusing us of the current crisis on the global food market. This is outright hypocrisy. We saw this approach in all clarity with the so-called grain deal. Brokered with the participation of the UN Secretariat, it was initially designed to promote global food security, mitigate the threat of hunger and help the poorest countries, including in Africa.
However, in almost a year since this so-called deal was concluded, a total of 32.8 million tonnes were exported from Ukraine, of which over 70 percent ended up in high-income and above-average income countries, including primarily the European Union, while I would like to draw your attention to the fact that countries like Ethiopia, Sudan, Somalia and several others received less than 3 percent of this total, or under 1 million tonnes.
Among other things, the reason Russia agreed to take part in this so-called deal was because it contained commitments to lift the illegitimate obstacles for supplying our grain and fertilisers to the global market. Make no mistake, this is what helping the poorest countries is all about.
However, nothing of what was agreed upon or what we were promised materialised – none of the conditions related to lifting the sanctions against the exports of Russian grain and fertilisers to the global markets have been fulfilled. Not a single one of them. We even faced obstacles when trying to deliver mineral fertilisers to the poorest countries that need them for free, as we have just discussed during the meeting with the leadership of the African Union. We managed to send only two shipments – just 20,000 tonnes to Malawi and 34,000 tonnes to Kenya, of the 262,000 tonnes of these fertilisers blocked in European ports. All the rest remained in the hands of the Europeans, even though this initiative was purely humanitarian in nature, which means that it should not have been exposed to any sanctions, as a matter of principle.
Ok, some may not want Russia to enrich itself, as they say, and use its revenue for military aims. Fine. But these were free shipments! But no, they would not let them through, despite all this empty talk about their desire to help the poorest countries.
Considering these facts, we refused to extend this would-be deal. As I have already said, Russia can well fill in the gap left by the withdrawal of the Ukrainian grain from the global market, either by selling its grain or by transferring it for free to the neediest countries in Africa, especially considering that this year we once again expect to have a record-high harvest.
To be more specific, let me say that in the next few months, next three to four months, we will be ready to provide, free of charge, a supply of 25,000–50,000 tonnes of grain each to Burkina Faso, Zimbabwe, Mali, Somalia, the Central African Republic and Eritrea, delivered at no cost.
A few more figures will probably be of interest. Ukraine produced about 55 million tonnes of grain in the past agricultural year. Exports amounted to 47 million tonnes: quite a lot, including 17 million tonnes of wheat. And Russia, colleagues, harvested 156 million tonnes of grain last year. It exported 60 million tonnes, of which 48 million tonnes was wheat.
Russia’s share of the world wheat market is 20 percent, Ukraine's is less than five per cent. This means that it is Russia that makes a significant contribution to global food security and is a solid, responsible international supplier of agricultural products. And those who claim that this is not the case, that it is only to secure the so-called grain deal to export Ukrainian grain, are simply twisting the facts and telling untruths. As a matter of fact, this has been the practice of some Western countries for decades, if not centuries.
Our country will continue to support states and regions in need, including with its humanitarian supplies. We are seeking to actively participate in the formation of a more equitable system for the distribution of resources and are doing our utmost to prevent a global food crisis.
In principle, we are convinced that with the application of appropriate agricultural technologies and the correct organisation of agricultural production, Africa can in the long term not only feed itself and ensure its own food security, but also become an exporter of various types of food. And Russia will only support you, I assure you.
My colleagues and I were just talking about this yesterday during our bilateral meetings, and my African colleagues told me: we can produce food – we need technology and the appropriate support. For its part, Russia is ready to share its expertise in agricultural production with African countries and to provide assistance in introducing the most advanced technologies.
We are also interested in further developing cooperation with African countries in the energy sector. This interaction is based on vast experience: over many years, Soviet and Russian specialists have been involved in designing and building major power generating facilities in Angola, Egypt, Ethiopia and other countries on the continent, with a total capacity of 4.6 gigawatts and amounting to – I would like to specifically emphasise this, friends – 25 percent of Africa’s hydropower capacity.
Currently, Russian companies are implementing new mutually beneficial projects that aim to meet African economies’ increasing needs for fuel and generating capacities, and provide Africans with access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and eco-friendly sources of energy.
More than 30 ambitious energy projects that involve Russian companies are now underway to varying extent in 16 African countries, with a total capacity of about 3.7 gigawatts. Russia’s RusHydro offers a vast scope of services to African partners, ranging from design and equipment supply to modernisation and construction of new turnkey power generating facilities. Russian companies Gazprom, Rosneft, LUKOIL and Zarubezhneft are involved in developing oil and gas fields in Algeria, Egypt, Cameroon, Nigeria and the Republic of the Congo. Over the past two years, Russia’s exports of crude oil, petroleum products and liquefied natural gas to Africa have seen a 2.6-fold increase.
Rosatom, our top nuclear energy company, is building El Dabaa Nuclear Power Plant in Egypt. This state corporation can share its unique expertise with African countries, as well as unparalleled technologies in non-energy peaceful use of atom, such as in healthcare and agriculture.
Promoting deeper cooperation between Russia and Africa in manufacturing has special importance. The continent knows Russia for its industrial goods, including cars, construction equipment, and many other products, which enjoy high demand and are known for their quality, reliability, and ease of use. Special service centres in Africa offer maintenance services for Russian equipment and machinery.
We are developing new tools for offering preferential loans to enable Africans to buy our industrial goods, deliver them to the continent, and benefit from after-sales services. The Russian Agency for Export Credit and Investment Insurance is there to provide insurance for these loans. We are devising a leasing mechanism tailored for Africa and are about to establish a dedicated investment fund for co-financing infrastructure projects. In Egypt, as my colleague President Sisi and I discussed yesterday, we are in talks to establish a Russian Industrial Zone near the Suez Canal. I hope that we will be able to launch it soon. We expect the construction of its first manufacturing facilities to begin this year so that the goods made there can be exported across Africa.
As a leader in ICT, Russia seeks to promote deeper cooperation with African countries in information security, AI, and the digital economy. We have positive experience in developing and using information technology solutions for administering taxes, registering property rights, offering e-government services to individuals and entities, including the corporate sector. We can help African countries that are interested in these solutions launch similar systems and reaffirm our unwavering commitment to sharing our know-how for promoting technological development.
In order to expand the range of our trade and economic ties, we should use national currencies, including the ruble, more energetically in the financial settlement of our commercial transactions. In this context we are ready to help African countries develop their financial infrastructure and to connect their banking establishments to the Financial Messaging System created in Russia, which can be used to make cross-border payments independently of some Western systems that are adopting restrictions. This will allow us to enhance the stability, predictability and security of mutual trade.
Russia is actively reorienting its transport and logistics flows to the Global South, including Africa, of course. The North-South transport corridor that we are building is designed to provide Russian products with access to the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean, with further connections via the shortest sea route to the African continent, among other regions. Naturally, this corridor can be used in reverse to deliver African goods to Russia.
Connecting the North-South transport corridor with Africa, lunching regular freight lines, which is our goal, and opening a Russian transport and logistics hub in a port on the eastern shore of Africa could be a good start of our cooperation. We consider it extremely important to expand the network of direct flights to Africa and to contribute to the development of the railway network in Africa. These are the most important goals of our time that we invite our African friends to tackle together.
Russia is interested in strengthening its ties with regional economic integration associations and structures in Africa across the board. For example, we support establishing cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union – a major integration project and Russia is part of it – and the African Continental Free Trade Area within the African Union. We are also ready to share with our African partners our experience in promoting integration between Russian and Belarus within the Union State.
Today, we will have a working lunch with the heads of state and government of countries heading Africa’s main regional organisations, as well as the senior executives of these associations. We want to show our African partners what we have to offer on the key aspects of integration such as removing barriers within a single market, the operation of free trade areas, coordinating agricultural, industrial policies and in other sectors too. I am convinced that this comprehensive cooperation, both in bilateral and multilateral settings, will enable us to expand our economic ties with Africa in terms of both quality and quantity.
I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that bilateral intergovernmental commissions have proven their worth in promoting economic and humanitarian cooperation. However, so far, we have these commissions with only a third of African countries. There are 18 of them for 54 countries. In this context, we suggest that the interested African countries who have yet to join this format should think about working with us to establish these commissions. It goes without saying that we are ready to move in this direction and believe that this would be beneficial.
We are also ready to expand the network of our trade missions in Africa and have more economic advisors, as well as attaches for agriculture, education, research and ICT.
Friends,
We will continue to give priority attention to the development of cultural, scientific, educational, sports and youth exchanges between Russia and African states. There is a great deal our country has to offer in these spheres.
Of course, training of skilled personnel has always been and remains a traditional area of Russia-Africa cooperation. We discussed this issue just now at a meeting with the African Union leaders.
Nearly 35,000 African students are studying at Russian universities, and this number is growing every year. The quota for African students financed from the federal budget has increased by 150 percent over the past three years and will exceed 4,700 people in the next academic year.
We plan to open branches of the leading Russian universities in Africa. Close ties are being developed with African educational institutions within the framework of the Russian-African Network University. An agreement on the establishment of the Russian-African consortium of technical universities, the Subsoil Resources of Africa, was signed at St Petersburg Mining University on July 26, ahead of this forum. It provides for the joint training of professionals for the mineral resources sector. I regard this as an extremely important and interesting area for cooperation.
We will continue to help our African friends develop not only the system of higher education but also general and vocational schools, train teachers, mentors and technical personnel for schools and colleges, as well as establish joint schools for which adapted teaching aids based on a combination of Russian and African national education programmes are being prepared.
We propose considering the possibility of opening schools in Africa with a series of subjects taught in Russian. I am confident that the implementation of projects such as the study of Russian and the introduction of Russia’s high educational standards will create the best foundation for our continued mutually beneficial and equal cooperation.
Next year, an international Russian language organisation should begin operating, which will be open for all countries to join if they like the Russian language and want to use it, as well as like and are interested in Russian culture. We invite our African partners to join in this endeavor.
In 28 African countries, a project has been launched to create open education centres to train teachers and educators of children’s preschool institutions, as well as primary and secondary schools. In order to do this, we are planning to significantly increase the enrollment of African students in Russian pedagogical universities.
More than 10,000 Africans currently studying in Russia are being trained in medical specialties. Healthcare and the fight against epidemics are an important area of Russia-Africa cooperation. Let me remind you that Russia was among the first countries to come to the aid of African countries during the coronavirus pandemic: we sent millions of Russian test kits to African countries free of charge and together with South Africa conducted scientific research on new strains of the dangerous virus. Just in recent months we handed two Russian mobile laboratories over to our partners from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and continue to equip the Russian-Guinean centre for the study of infections in Kindia, where more than 20 diagnostic products have been developed. About 1,500 local specialists have been trained in Russian infection prevention and control methods. A joint centre has also been established in Burundi to study infections.
A large Russian programme has been developed and will function until 2026 to assist Africa in countering infections, for which 1.2 billion rubles will be allocated. Under this programme, 10 mobile labs will be supplied, hundreds of specialists trained, and joint research carried out.
Every year, Russia and Africa have more and more youth exchanges. Representatives of African countries, as part of the New Generation programme, annually travel to Russia to participate in short-term programmes designed for young representatives of political, public, scientific, and business circles to get acquainted with our country. Relations are also maintained with those Africans who were educated in Russia. Just now, during my previous meeting, I had the pleasure to communicate with colleagues who speak fluent Russian.
I would like to use this occasion to invite our young African friends to come to Russia in March 2024, when the World Youth Festival will be held in Sochi. It’s a major forum that will bring together young people from all over the world. We expect over 20,000 participants from more than 180 countries.
We set a high value on cooperation in physical fitness and sport. We are ready to further develop ties with African countries’ sports federations. We propose building up ties between the sports universities of Russia and Africa, exchanging university students, implementing volunteer programmes and holding joint matches in different sports between educational institutions and universities. We invite African athletes to take part in the University International Sports Festival, which will be held in August in Yekaterinburg, in the Urals, and in the Games of the Future, which Kazan will host in February and March 2024. These games are a unique combination of dynamic sports and the most popular video games and technological devices. This new competition format combines classical and innovative sports.
Russia is resolved to develop cooperation with African countries and Africa as a whole in the sphere of mass communications, including the exchange of content, organisation of training courses for media personnel and students, and organisation of experimental events. Work is underway to open offices of the leading Russian media outlets in Africa, including the TASS News Agency, Rossiya Segodnya, RT, VGTRK and Rossiyskaya Gazeta. We propose creating a common information space of Russia and Africa, where Russian and African audiences will have access to objective and unbiased information about world events.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that Russia is sincerely interested in continuing to promote all-round development and deepen trade, economic and humanitarian cooperation with all African countries. I have no doubt that this forum and the thematic meetings, round tables and talks held within its framework will certainly be useful and will bring us closer to our common goals.
Thank you very much for your patience and attention. Thank you.
Irina Abramova: Thank you very much, Mr President.
Your speech has clearly set the prospects, nature and main areas of Russian-African cooperation in today’s transforming world order.
I believe the participants in our forum have received answers to the most pressing questions that concern both Russia and Africa today. Cooperation between equal and sovereign states is always a two-way road, and it is always extremely important for Russians to know the opinion of our African partners on the developments in the world and the prospects for cooperation.
I am honoured to give the floor to Chairperson of the African Union, President of the Union of the Comoros, His Excellency Mr Assoumani.
Chairperson of the African Union, President of the Union of the Comoros Azali Assoumani at the plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
Chairperson of the African Union, President of the Union of the Comoros Azali Assoumani (retranslated): Your Excellency, President of the Russian Federation, Mr Putin.
Your Excellencies, presidents of the African Union member countries,
Mr Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the African Union Commission,
Representatives of the Russian authorities and the city of St Petersburg, ladies and gentlemen,
It is a great honour for me to pass greetings from the African Union to the second Russia–Africa summit in St Petersburg. I am very pleased to have an opportunity to speak today on behalf of our organisation on some matters that are important for Africa, as well as discuss our partnership with Russia, a global power that has an active presence on our continent.
First of all, let me thank the authorities of the Russian Federation for the warm welcome in the magnificent city of St Petersburg and for organising this event, both personally and on behalf of the African Union. We are in the Northern Venice: this beautiful city shows how great the Russian genius and creator of this city, Peter the Great, was. Today, the second Russia-Africa summit is taking place here, and we are talking about our common history.
Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen,
The multipolar world of the 21st century cannot close on itself. That is why Africa wants to establish a fair and mutually beneficial partnership with the entire world. In particular, economically, Africa, where 3.8 billion people will live by the end of the century, wants to work closely with more partners, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Given the abundance of our human and natural resources, the dynamics of our continent, the workforce that we have, we look forward to close cooperation.
It is clear to us that Russia has a special place in our partnership and we are ready to work in cooperation with Russia on all major topics.
Today’s forum is taking place at a special time for Africa. As you know, an action plan for the establishment of the African Continental Free Trade Area until 2063 was adopted at the Niamey summit in July 2019 to boost our integration and cooperation. We are also developing the African Union Agenda 2063.
All these projects are designed to create new possibilities for both local and international companies that are ready to invest in Africa. To attain these goals, our partners should tailor their activities to the specific features of our continent, of course, to the goals set out in the Agenda 2063, to our infrastructure and industrialisation process, as well as to the continent’s energy problems. These are the main elements and tracks where we can actively cooperate with Russia.
It is extremely important to readjust our mutual approaches in order to develop a mutually beneficial partnership and to diversify our economy, considering that we mostly export raw materials now. However, we are living through a period of industrialisation and working to create stable skilled jobs. This is very important for our young people and that is why it is vital to strengthen our public-private partnership in the Russia-Africa context, which will help a broad variety of participants to join the process.
In this sense, the African Union remains a vital instrument of economic diversification, in particular, in the most promising sectors such as agriculture, healthcare, education, energy and others. At the same time, African companies need support to enhance labour efficiency and to enter new markets.
Agricultural raw materials account for 80 percent of our GDP. It is a sector where we can promote our partnership and our new projects. Both private and state-run companies will be able to take part in mutually beneficial partnerships on equal terms in our countries.
Ladies and gentlemen, your excellencies,
Today we are also working on investment in new digital technologies, which will create a new foundation for our cooperation. A digital revolution is taking place on our continent, which will allow us to join a new stage of the industrial revolution and to address economic and social issues in the best possible manner.
It is extremely important for us to quickly join the new industrial revolution, the digital revolution. In this connection, it is important to pay attention to the training of skilled personnel, especially young people, who should engage in effective activities in both the private and public sectors, as well as in financial organisations.
Our shared goal, ladies and gentlemen, is to define the main avenues for stepping up our cooperation for the benefit of our nations. In this context, allow me to dwell on the urgent matter of grain deliveries. This is a critical, an existential issue for us.
The fact that the grain deal was suspended may affect our cooperation in one way or another. Russia works closely with us and does a great deal to resolve the grain and food issue. In fact, Russia supplied over 1.9 million tonnes for a total of over $3 billion.
Today, I would like to use this opportunity to reaffirm just how important this topic is for us. We discussed it back in 2019.
The Ukraine crisis has a major bearing on the situation, which means that resolving this crisis would save many people whose lives depend on food deliveries. Today, our continent endures surging food prices. This compels us to call on all those involved in this process asking them to facilitate grain shipments from both Ukraine and Russia to our countries.
We stand ready to work with Russia in all sectors and spheres to ensure security on the continent. We are doing everything possible to promote peace and security on our continent. However, we are witnessing all kinds of events these days. You know what happened in Niger just recently. We firmly condemn the way the events have been unfolding in Niger and demand that the President of the Republic of Niger and his family be freed immediately.
Today, we must fight for achieving lasting peace between Russia and Ukraine. This is the message of the African Union, and I fully endorse it personally. We travelled to Kiev to meet with President Zelensky and brought him the same message. We have the same message for President of Russia Vladimir Putin. There is certainty among us that our call for peace will be heard because this is what humankind needs today. On behalf of the African Union, I once again call for peaceful coexistence between Russia and Ukraine, two brotherly nations and neighbours. You have my gratitude for heeding our call and our message.
Today, we are fighting for a multilateral, multipolar world. We, the people of Africa, understand well that the international system as it exists today must be reformed, which includes the UN system. Accordingly, Africa has every right to proactively contribute to the decision-making process, in particular as a permanent member of the UN Security Council. I will endeavour to get us there and my colleague who will succeed me in this office will work along the same lines.
I would like the audience in this hall to applaud this message in the hope that the Russian Federation will support the great cause of promoting Africa on the international stage.
Africa’s active involvement in the G20 is essential. Without this, international activity is impossible today. The expansion of Africa’s presence in the G20 is accorded great importance.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Today’s summit offers an opportunity to better understand what we should do together to boost investment and maximise our potential.
Hopefully, the forum will produce recommendations that can be implemented promptly, specifically for the development of public-private partnerships between Russia and Africa. Our continent believes in the future of Russia-Africa cooperation based on mutual respect and benefit.
This summit will certainly help us to move forward in this direction, toward peace and prosperity for Russia and Africa in the interests of our peoples.
Thank you for the attention.
Irina Abramova: Thank you, Mr President.
Your remarks have shown that Russia and Africa share rather close and sometimes identical views on the situation in the world and the new opportunities opening up in our relations.
I would like to note that the second Russia–Africa Summit is different because it deals with both economic and humanitarian issues. It means that for both Russia and Africa, both material and spiritual values are important.
I would like to give the floor to His Holiness Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia.
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia at the plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia: Your Excellency, Mr President. Your Excellency, President of the Union of the Comoros Azali Assoumani, distinguished heads and high representatives of African countries.
Please accept my heartfelt welcome and gratitude for the invitation to speak at such a representative event dedicated to the development of cooperation between Russia and countries on the African continent.
This forum is a truly remarkable event in international life. It has an important political, economic and even spiritual and cultural meaning.
Despite the geographical distance separating us, our nations are bound by kind relations. The secret to this friendship is simple: Russia has never considered the African continent as a territory for reaping profit or an object for colonisation. It has never looked down on the African people or spoken from a position of superiority or force. We have always tried to show solidarity and offer help to each other in challenging historical times.
Russia tried to offer assistance to African countries during their difficult and momentous period of battling for independence and self-determination, and later worked jointly with them to rebuild a peaceful life and carry out many infrastructure projects. It is wonderful that this cooperation continues today.
The good feelings between us have been tested by time. They rest on the solid foundation of a common perception of the fundamentals of human life and a strong commitment to enduring moral values. Loyalty to traditions, perception of the family as the union of a man and a woman, love for and respect of one’s history, and an aspiration for goodness and justice are all vital civilisational values of importance to both the peoples of Russia and Africa, who cherish their distinct spiritual and cultural identities. These principles are so important for us that we are prepared to defend and fight for them.
We sometimes have to defend them under very difficult circumstances. The world has changed beyond recognition over the past decades. I do not mean so much the political map, or the economy, or technological progress as much as I mean the dangerous spiritual and moral climate, which Western countries are fostering actively and even aggressively. Moral relativism, the cult of consumption, freedom misinterpreted as permissiveness, and the eradication of the traditional family are only some of the problems of the system of values, which certain forces are promoting in the West, or rather anti-values because their adoption will inevitably bring humanity to deep cultural and spiritual degradation.
Thankfully, this danger is not only apparent to Russia, where laws are adopted to protect society from the propaganda of a culture that is alien to us and features that are amoral, but also to African countries.
I know that despite the powerful pressure placed on them, the absolute majority of African countries categorically reject the legalisation of the so-called same-sex unions, euthanasia, and other phenomena that are religious sins. This mutual rejection clearly brings our positions closer together. We proceed from the same basic principles, and therefore we are always happy to meet with likeminded people.
It is wonderful that Africa’s role in international relations is growing, as exemplified by peace initiatives of African countries and their active contribution to dealing with continental and global problems. I am confident that Russia and Africa can offer the world a constructive model of honest and fair relations among nations.
Unfortunately, today, not everyone in the international arena is always ready to engage in a dialogue of equals. Several Western countries still cannot overcome their colonial past and continue to think and act according to this template. Hopefully, the development of good relations between Russia and the African countries will help further promote traditional moral values around the world.
Another criminal tool of modern politics is attempting to incite enmity between religious groups. It hurts me to say that these phenomena have spread dangerously across Africa. Unfortunately, the Christians are more exposed to persecution than people of other faiths. I want to avail myself of this opportunity and, in my capacity as Primate of the Russian Orthodox Church, with a heavy heart, strongly urge everyone who has the authority and real power to influence this tragic situation and do everything it takes to protect Christians who are being persecuted in Africa.
The sad experience of the previous decades and the stories of many regional conflicts show that provocations based on religion are often initiated and funded by those who seek to weaken a country from inside through the well-known divide and rule strategy.
It is extremely important to prevent the incitement of religious enmity. It is all the more important as societies in the majority of African countries are multi-faith and multi-ethnic.
Cultural and ethnic diversity enriches any country and must be preserved with care. I believe Russia is ready to share its centuries of experience in this area.
There are over a hundred ethnic groups living in our country, and members of various religions and people of different faiths co-exist in harmony, including Orthodox Christians, Catholics, Protestants, Muslims, Jews and Buddhists. Not only have we lived side by side for centuries, but we freely practice our religions and cooperate in educational, humanitarian, peacemaking, social and other areas. We have established institutions to address these issues as tools for consulting with one another and developing programmes to take common actions.
As for the Russian Orthodox Church, it is cognizant of the special responsibility it has for the destinies of the nations that have historically been part of it and endeavours to do everything to cultivate in people fidelity to Divine law, respect for the traditions of and love for their country.
Not long ago, the Russian Orthodox Church established an exarchate on the African continent, compelled to do so, among other things, by the requests from Orthodox believers in Africa and for the sake of spiritually tending to the Orthodox people on this continent, as well as considering that Africa needs our presence.
However, it is not that the presence of the Russian Orthodox Church in Africa is something unprecedented. Russian parishes started to appear on the continent back in the 19th and early 20th centuries. For example, Russian churches were built in Abyssinia, which is modern-day Ethiopia, in 1889 and in 1896. The Russian Orthodox Church opened a permanent parish in Egypt back in 1914. Even more parishes opened in Africa after the revolution in Russia as refugees started fleeing our country. A church was consecrated in Tunisia in 1920, followed by a parish in Algeria in 1922, and Russian Orthodox parishes which opened in Morocco in 1927. In 1998, I consecrated the first Russian church in South Africa.
In my capacity as the head of the Moscow Patriarchate’s Department for External Church Relations, and then as Patriarch, I visited 18 countries across the African continent between 1971 and 2016, including in northern, southern, eastern, western and central Africa.
My November 1990 meeting with Nelson Mandela at his home in Soweto had special importance for me. He was freed after a lengthy imprisonment on February 11 of the same year, and I think that I was the first foreigner he received at his home. Mr Mandela asked me to convey his gratitude to the Soviet authorities for their decisive role in supporting the fight against the apartheid regime, including by supplying everything that was needed. As you know, Mr Mandela went on to become President of South Africa in 1994. I have very good memories of this man who did a lot to rid the world of the idea that apartheid can be somehow accepted.
Regrettably, in 2019 Patriarch Theodore of Alexandria, obviously yielding to external pressure, decided to recognise the schismatic ecclesiastical group in Ukraine. As I have said, these sad circumstances forced the Russian Orthodox Church to establish the Patriarchal Exarchate of Africa in December 2021.
We thought that the Patriarch of Alexandria, a Greek Patriarch, could represent the Orthodox Church as a whole in Africa, but he, guided by certain Western forces, took actions that created a new schism in the Orthodox Church. We had to react to that action, and we did it not least of all but primarily by adopting that decision on the organisation of the activities of Orthodox churches in Africa.
Not only Russians living in Africa, but also local people profess Orthodox Christianity and go to our churches. Over the past 18 months, the Patriarchal Exarchate of Africa has established over 200 parishes in 25 African countries. Apart from developing liturgical activities, we have started implementing many humanitarian and educational projects, including, inter alia, the translation of books into local languages.
The establishment and activities of the Exarchate has engendered considerable interest in the Russian Orthodox Church among Africans. Many of them appreciate the fact that our Church cherishes the apostolic succession and teaching in our sacraments and spiritual experience, and that we do not distort the God-given rules of morality to suit modern ideological trends.
While developing our pastoral work, we are trying to contribute to the strengthening of ties between the Russian Church, Russia and Africa and to improving the quality of people’s lives. New schools, water wells, electric power substations, hospitals and culture centres appear in the communities where we create our parishes.
We are determined to cooperate constructively with other religious organisations in Africa. Our parishes receive registration in full compliance with legislation of the home countries. I would like to express special gratitude for this to these countries’ leaders. The Moscow Patriarchate is open to any initiative that is advanced in the best interests of people, aimed at building peace and supporting people in need.
I address the people of the African continent with love and respect, and I invoke God’s blessings on all of you. May God give peace and prosperity to the people of your countries and wisdom, patience and tenacity to your states and their leaders. I hope that this forum will further boost cooperation between our nations in all spheres of social life.
Thank you for your attention, and all the best to you in your work.
Irina Abramova: Your Holiness, thank you very much for your address, your deep analysis of the humanitarian component of our cooperation and your focus on the importance of interfaith dialogue for addressing issues of humanitarian development.
Our next speaker arrived in St Petersburg from the Western Hemisphere, from a country that had close historical and cultural ties with the African continent. I invite Dilma Rousseff, President of Brazil from 2011 to 2016, to take the floor. On March 24, 2023, she was unanimously elected President of the BRICS New Development Bank (NDB).
President of the New Development Bank (BRICS) Dilma Rousseff at the plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
President of the New Development Bank Dilma Rousseff: (retranslated): Your Excellency, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin,
Your Excellency President of the Union of the Comoros and Chairperson of the African Union,
Heads of state and government, ladies and gentlemen,
I would like to start by welcoming this initiative by the Russian Federation and African countries. No doubt, this is a new platform that will allow us to build a more multilateral and multipolar world.
We know that today, the world is facing numerous crises and instability has become a norm in this situation. We went through the coronavirus crisis, which strongly affected developing nations. We have a debt crisis and we are seeing protectionism on the part of many Western countries. We are facing both political and climate crises.
In this context, developing nations have become increasingly important players in the international arena. The BRICS countries alone represent over 40% of the world population and account for over a quarter of global GDP. The importance of these countries’ economies is hard to overestimate, it is incomparable with the countries comprising the G7.
We know that protectionist policies, which are always unilateral, have a much stronger impact on developing nations. The use of sanctions for political purposes and attempts to expand the jurisdiction of one country beyond its borders do not resolve a single problem. On the contrary, they make everything worse. We are seeing this in the consequences of this policy, including in terms of food security, and at this forum where both economic and humanitarian problems are being discussed.
The BRICS New Development Bank that now also includes Egypt, Bangladesh and the UAE, supports the development initiatives of developing nations on all continents just as regional development banks do. These nations can count on agreements on using national currencies in trade transactions. This is a strategic instrument in the search for a balance of forces and efforts to build a fairer world and a new multipolar and multilateral world order.
The New Development Bank was established just eight years ago, in 2014, at the BRICS summit in Fortaleza. I had the honour of being present at the establishment of the bank together with President Putin. This bank is often called the BRICS bank because it was established by the will of the five BRICS members but it has already outgrown this framework and is not limited to just these countries.
The goal of the NDB is to accumulate resources to facilitate logistics and infrastructure projects in different countries so as to promote the development of their energy and social infrastructure – schools, universities and medical facilities, as well as digital infrastructure. We know that the fourth revolution – both technological and industrial – will require changes from developing economies. They should take part in the new form, new mode of production. This is why we do not agree to be just a platform for the consumption of products made by large high-tech companies.
We are paying considerable attention to building up the infrastructure of developing countries and taking part in their economies. This is one of the main goals for us, the NDB. We share the idea that our work should be aimed at ensuring the sustainable development and prosperity of our peoples and eliminating the threat of poverty and famine. We must end hunger in our countries.
We are working in the spirit of true multilateralism. The bank is working to share our experience and best practices of sustainable development, which were elaborated by our governments.
Importantly, in loaning its funds, the bank is not dependent on external factors. We know that developing nations are dependent on other factors and have been suffering from this for decades. We want to expand the influence of the NDB on countries. We want to strengthen the bank as a platform for the development of the Global South countries. In this sense, the developing nations of all continents, especially Africa, Latin America and Asia are our strategic partners. We are now expanding the range of our shareholders and partnerships. We are also trying to fund most important projects. We would like to enhance our influence in the regions.
We would like to work closer with all countries as part of our bank. We would like to establish partnerships with countries rather than work on projects alone. We would also like to work with the private sector on the most important projects.
We would also like to get our revenue in different markets and different currencies – this is important for us. The NDB will receive money in different markets and in the currencies of all developing nations, not only in dollars or in euros. We would like to increase the number of transactions in national currencies in order to strengthen the markets of the countries that are part of the NDB. We consider it important to increase the share of private investment. We believe our participants should not be affected by problems that may arise in Western markets and for this reason we are developing our own transaction systems.
We would like to create different income sources so that the developing countries can reach stability. At this moment, we know that the use of national currencies amounts to about 20 percent of all banking transactions. China carries out nearly one-third of its banking operations in its national currency.
Our programme for 2022–2026 provides for a share of about 30 percent for transactions in national currencies. I would like [you] to pay special attention to the fact that using national currencies is one of our priorities in the process of building a new architecture of financial relations in the world. We are not saying that the currencies now in use should be replaced. What we mean is that the range of currencies now in use should be expanded as should the existing financial infrastructure.
Countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia are often affected by negative economic consequences, being unable, for example, to control interest rate increases. We no longer want to be affected by these changes and figures, which we cannot control. We just suffer from their consequences.
The third important point for the New Development Bank is [promoting] socioeconomic development and enhancing social inclusion. We do not think it is necessary to impose our vision on each country; we appreciate different development projects and sovereign paths [chosen by] each state. The New Development Bank wants to support projects that can help smooth out social differences and raise the socioeconomic level in each country.
We also think it is important to create infrastructure projects that will facilitate the attainment of this goal. The NDB has already approved 98 projects in member countries amounting in total to about 35 billion US dollars.
We cooperate with various regional banks. We cooperate with the African Export-Import Bank and other banks engaged in economic and social development. We also work with private investment and we believe that our joint work will help us implement infrastructure and logistics projects aimed at improving living standards in the member countries.
I am confident that the BRICS Development Bank and all member countries will become increasingly important international actors and that the NDB will emerge as a new platform. In this context, the current Summit is meeting the challenges of the times and is up to the issues facing the NDB, helping to achieve the multilateral world [order] for the benefit of the developing countries.
Today, our world is in constant change and facing various threats. Together, we can do better in terms of responding to new challenges. There is no stability without peace and no development, including sustainable development, without stability. Unless the world develops in a sustainable manner, it will not reach any agreements enabling us to really improve our lives and help people and our planet as a whole to get richer.
Thank you very much.
Irina Abramova: Thank you very much, Ms Rousseff, for your remarks, which show that both Russia and Africa have many supporters on different continents.
The next participant of this plenary session will address you for the second time. He took part in the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Economic Forum in Sochi in 2019, with good reason. The financing of Russia-Africa cooperation is one of the main issues now.
I give the floor to Mr Benedict Okey Oramah, President of the African Export-Import Bank.
President, Chairman of the Board of the African Export-Import Bank Benedict Oramah at the plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum. Photo: Pavel Bednyakov, RIA Novosti
President of the African Export-Import Bank Benedict Okey Oramah: Your Excellency Vladimir Putin, our dear host and President of the Russian Federation,
Your Excellency Azali Assoumani, President of the Union of the Comoros and Chairperson of the African Union,
Your excellencies African heads of state and their representatives present here,
Your Excellency Moussa Faki Mahamat, the Chairman of the African Union Commission,
Your excellencies distinguished ladies and gentlemen,
It gives me great pleasure to have been given the opportunity to make remarks during the 2023 Russia–Africa Economic Forum. Special thanks to His Excellency President Putin, his Government and the people of Russia for demonstrating once again the strong bond of friendship and partnership between the Russian people and the African people, even in the midst of unprecedented global challenges.
Your excellencies,
When we met in Sochi in 2019, during the first Russia–Africa Economic Forum and Summit, we committed to systematically pursue stronger trade and investment ties between Russia and Africa, to reset socioeconomic relations on the foundations of the solidarity formed during Africa’s struggle for independence in the 1950s and the 1960s.
We projected moving two-way trade closer to 40 billion dollars by 2026. Your Excellencies, in the four years before 2021, the thresholds reached almost 20 billion dollars from about 10 billion dollars five years earlier. This happened despite the COVID-19 pandemic and other significant global difficulties. With the strong partnership between Afreximbank and the Russian Export Centre, we expect a doubling of the trade flows in the next four years. Some progress has been made, and we believe that this is achievable.
The global food security challenges have brought to the fore the critical role that Russia plays in guaranteeing Africa’s food security. A significant proportion of the African economies depend on Russia for supply of fertilisers, and 30 percent of Africa’s cereal imports are from Russia. Ensuring that these trade flows continue remains a priority of Afreximbank and its African member states. That is why, in the context of the unprecedented global uncertainties, Afreximbank has been working with the African Union Commission, the United Nations system and our Russian partners to use an e-commerce platform called the African Trade Exchange to facilitate the seamless flow of goods and payments in any currencies the sellers and buyers choose, and in a transparent manner.
Afreximbank is able to offer trade services, commercial facilities and payment services on that platform. It also offers an opportunity to participate in supporting trade. The African Trade Exchange is a platform, which we use to pool Africa’s demand for grains and fertilisers, against which Afreximbank has placed an aggregate credit limit amounting to three billion dollars to support the trade. The three billion dollars represent what is available and can be used on a revolving basis to support the significant demand for food and fertilisers today on the continent of Africa.
We look forward to continuing these efforts with our Russian partners, using this platform to ease access to grains and fertilisers. Every day 300 million Africans go hungry, and it is important that we all do our best to make sure that until we begin to achieve food sovereignty, we ensure that food security is attained.
Beyond the immediate food security priorities, Afreximbank and the Russian Export Centre are collaborating to promote trade and investment in other critical sectors, with an emphasis placed on those activities that we have integrated in the African economy, and above it the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement.
Afreximbank stands ready to offer its array of products to support investments in agriculture, industrial parks, health and other critical infrastructure. In true partnership with the Russian Export Centre, Afreximbank will be able to support African investors who are willing to exploit the opportunities in Russia.
So, while we work on the investments from Russia into Africa, we also hope that African investors can look into Russia, because it is where we have two-way investments that can accelerate trade flows and economic integration.
Your excellencies,
By the end of this second summit, I hope that Russia and Africa will have strengthened their solidarity, laid the foundation for rebuilding the supply chains for grains and fertilisers trade between Africa and Russia, which is a bit broken today. And this is important so the billions of dollars in trade can continue.
I was very happy when His Excellency President Putin spoke about all the arrangements being made to open new trade routes that will make it easier for this trade to go on seamlessly. I hope we also find common ground to explore the tremendous investment opportunities in Africa opened by the African Continental Free Trade Agreement.
Your excellencies,
Less than 20 years ago, Russia was a net importer of food. Today, Russia accounts for 20 percent of the world’s exports of grains. We hope that the new partnership that we are forging with Russia at the Russia–Africa Summit will make it possible for Africa to attain the same goal in a very short time.
Thank you for listening.
Irina Abramova: Mr Oramah, I thank you and all the participants in the plenary session for the presentations, which have determined the strategic directions of our future discussions.
Your excellencies,
Participants and guests,
The plenary meeting is now adjourned. I wish everyone successful and, most importantly, productive work.
(Applause.)
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2023, 13:40
Text versionEvents
Working breakfast with heads of African regional organisations
Vladimir Putin had a working breakfast with the heads of Africa’s regional organisations.
July 27, 2023
18:15
St Petersburg
3 of 7
During the working breakfast with heads of African regional organisations. Photo: Valery Sharifulin, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
I am delighted to welcome the heads of state who currently chair Africa’s main regional organisations.
I also welcome the heads of these associations’ executives bodies. You represent the whole spectrum of organisations and structures operating on the continent: the African Union (AU), the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, the East African Community, the Arab Maghreb Union, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the Economic Community of Central African States, the Economic Community of West African States, and the African Export-Import Bank. This is a solid line-up that speaks for itself.
As for Russia, our country is a proactive contributor to regional integration projects across the vast Eurasian space. The Eurasian Economic Union is probably the key structure where Russia participates alongside our friendly neighbouring countries. Its purpose is to build single markets for goods, services, capital and labour. It is for this reason that we decided that it would be important to discuss the prospects of cooperation between the Eurasian Union and Africa’s integration bodies. This primarily refers to the African Union which has been following a similar path with the creation of the African Continental Free Trade Area.
Head of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board Mikhail Myasnikovich will share his thoughts and proposals in this regard. As for me, I would like to note that of all the regional organisations, the African Union is Russia’s main partner. We support it in its multifaceted efforts to ensure peace and stability and promote political and economic integration.
Today we will approve a major joint Russia–African Union action plan until 2026. This comprehensive document was drafted pursuant to the 2019 Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Russian Federation and the African Union Commission on the basic principles of their relations and cooperation. It focuses on intensifying contacts on peace and security and resolving crises.
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
In addition, we believe that the creation of a new permanent dialogue mechanism for consultations on such urgent issues as countering terrorism and extremism and ensuring food, information and environmental security could be a meaningful addition to Russia–African Union instruments of interaction.
And, of course, I want to mention that Russia supports the African Union's participation in the G20 as a full member. We talked about this today. We expect that the G20 will reach a decision on this matter, including with our support, at the summit in New Delhi in September. Objectively, this decision would reflect the constantly growing role of the African continent and its leading regional structures in international affairs.
Naturally, we are ready to develop effective interaction with other African regional organisations that are represented at our meeting. We support close foreign policy coordination and cooperation with them in countering modern challenges and threats, including terrorism, extremism and organised crime, implementing mutually beneficial trade and economic initiatives and cooperation in promoting development.
We are convinced that such multifaceted partnership is a substantial addition to bilateral ties and contacts with our African friends and fully meets the interests of our states, facilitating the sustainable economic growth and prosperity of both Russia and Africa.
Of course, during this working breakfast we will be very happy to listen to the leaders of Africa’s regional organisations. I hope our meeting and conversations will be productive.
And now I am delighted to give the floor to the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Mr Moussa Faki Mahamat.
Thank you for our attention.
Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat (retranslated): Your Excellency, Mr President of the Russian Federation!
Heads of State, dear colleagues!
Leaders of regional economic organisations!
I would like to thank Mr President Putin on our collective behalf for organising this most timely event – meeting with the leaders of international African organisations at the Russia-Africa Summit.
In October 2019, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding on our partnership with the Foreign Minister of Russia. It speaks of peace, stability and socio-economic development.
Despite the terrible COVID-19 pandemic, we continued exchanging views and documents with the Foreign Ministry of Russia with a view to specifying the provisions of this memorandum and mapping out a plan of action.
I think this summit will allow us to specify additional points and finalise the drafting of an action plan, as the President of the Russian Federation emphasised today, until 2026.
In the African Union, we have the African Economic Commission that operates over the entire continent and eight regional organisations on which the African Union relies.
Africa has adopted a plan of action until 2063. The main goals are integration, prosperity and peace.
As for integration, we are now working with regional economic communities because we know that our countries cannot fully develop individually.
Mr President, your country serves as an example. Russia was an enormous empire, then there was the Soviet Union and today Russia is a federation or a unifying structure. This is the same philosophy as we have in the African Union. The Organisation of African Unity was established 60 years ago. It was replaced by the African Union that has 55 member-countries today.
As for the development of the African continent, we have enormous natural and human resources. Despite the grievous times of our history – slavery and colonisation, it is important for the African Union to ensure that both our human and natural resources are used for the advancement of our countries. To achieve this, we must work inside our organisation and within our partnerships that are important both for our continent and for our partners.
The President of the Russian Federation said today in the morning that Africa’s relations with Russia, and earlier with the Soviet Union, were very advanced. The Soviet Union supported the struggle of the African countries first against colonialism and later against apartheid. And, of course, the Soviet Union helped to give education to thousands of specialists, men and women, in different economic areas, and they continue working in Africa. So we have a good foundation for building a modern partnership.
Infrastructure is a priority for our continent. President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi who is present here worked a great deal on this issue. Africa has an area of 30 million square kilometres and a population of 1.5 billion but we are a kind of an enclave in the world – we have few roads and railways, we are short of airports and the like. In theory, we have created today the world’s biggest free trade area, but we must physically unite our countries and join our regions for the best use of Africa’s resources. This is the largest project of our continent. Infrastructure and energy are essential for development.
Russia is an industrial country with vast experience in energy, railways and automobile transport. I think today our partnership has not yet reached a level worthy of Russia and African nations. We must step up our efforts in this area.
I am not referring to development assistance. We know how that went on our continent. We need investment, we need mutual interest and we need movement to meet each other halfway. I believe the leaders of all African nations are ready for such a partnership, to work together under jointly drafted plans that will be implemented strictly according to schedule.
We talked at length about agriculture and food security today. Africa accounts for 60 percent of the planet’s undeveloped arable lands. We have a lot of water and forest but despite this we are not self-sufficient in food. This is very strange and very sad. Today, our goal is not to import things but to organise the transfer of technology to Africa. This technology exists and there are fields where cooperation suggests itself.
As for human resources, I already spoke about education and healthcare, so thank you for speaking about this earlier today, in particular, about training skilled workers.
I told Foreign Minister Lavrov when I was here in the autumn of 2021 that the majority of specialists in my country, particularly in physics and mathematics, were taught by Russian physics, chemistry and mathematics teachers. It is impossible to train an engineer if you are not good at physics and mathematics, as they serve as a foundation of new technologies. Incidentally, it is important to train teachers in this field who will pass these technical skills on to students.
Finally, regarding security, I want to say that today, alas, Africa has become a place where all sorts of extremists and terrorists are active – be it in the north, in the Sahel, in the Horn of Africa area, in the Great Lakes area or even in Mozambique. Acts of terror and attacks by terrorist groups are a serious challenge to us. Considering this, we must beef up our forces.
Everyone is talking today about African brigades in the east, in the south and so on – our combined forces. However, it is important to train and upgrade them.
For 60 year now, UN missions have been at work on our territory, but this is expensive and not very convenient. We raised this issue at the UN Security Council but it is still up in the air. So we are trying to resolve security issues with support from our friends and on our own. I believe Russia will play a significant role in this.
Mr President, Your Excellency, colleagues, I tried to outline the main areas of our cooperation. Hopefully, my colleagues will also speak about this.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much.
I always take pleasure and interest in what Mr Mahamat says, because he always manages to touch on the most vital topics in vivid detail.
Please, I have already introduced my colleague, Mr Myasnikovich, Chairman of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board, to you.
Please, go ahead.
Chairman of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board Mikhail Myasnikovich: Mr President of the Russian Federation,
Your excellencies,
First of all, I would like to thank the Russian Federation for organising the second Russia–Africa summit and forum at the very highest level. We believe this is an important and necessary event.
Here is what I would like to note.
First, Eurasia and Africa’s integration association have similar guidelines for the development of integration processes, which is important, and they are stated in our policy documents. First of all, I would like to talk about the Eurasian Economic Union Strategy until 2025 and Africa’s Agenda 2063: internal unity, improving the well-being of people and the competitiveness of the member states’ economies. It has already been mentioned that in order to achieve these goals, our Eurasian Economic Union really, I would like to emphasise this, really ensures the freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and labour.
President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin made a proposal to supplement this list with the fifth freedom: freedom of knowledge, which we believe is very relevant in this situation as my colleague also said.
Let me briefly speak about the Eurasian Economic Union. It is developing successfully. Despite difficult conditions, last year a record level of exports was reached: 21 percent in foreign trade and 14 percent in mutual trade. This year, mutual trade has added another 17 percent. The expected growth of the Union’s economy in 2023 is over 2 percent, according to expert estimates.
The internal market of the Eurasian Economic Union fully covers its need for grain, meat, dairy and sugar with its own production. At the same time, for example in 2022, the Union members exported tens of millions of tonnes of grain, 590,000 tonnes of sugar, 460,000 tonnes of meat and meat products, and 100,000 tonnes of milk and dairy products.
I say this because potential opportunities for trade with our African colleagues are good both for food and industrial products.
Second, there is reason to accelerate progress in cooperation; the necessary foundations have been laid. We have a documented relationship with the African Union and COMESA, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, and documents are being prepared with the East African Community and the Economic Community of Central African States. But practical measures are needed. Therefore, at the final stage, colleagues, I would like to report that we are in talks with Egypt to create a free trade zone. By the way, the Eurasian Economic Commission, whose Board I head, has scheduled talks in Moscow on August 14. This is the sixth round of negotiations on this issue.
Why do I focus on these practical matters? The EAEU member states consider comprehensive cooperation with Egypt a key to the development of partnerships with African countries in general. There is certain infrastructure, as was discussed at the plenary meeting today: the Russian industrial zone in Egypt. We know there are plans to seriously develop it.
This is why in this situation we would like to ask you, colleagues, that the integration associations of Africa give, perhaps, additional positive signals for their businesses to work more actively with the Eurasian Economic Union. In turn, our business circles have received such recommendations.
Third, in 2022 the EAEU’s trade with African countries increased by 3.5 percent. This is not a big number, considering our potential. But owing to the measures we are taking, we have achieved 15.5 percent growth in the first half of the year, or first four months, to be precise. These are good figures and we should keep moving at the same pace. So I would like to thank our African partners for this.
We see prospects for developing economic relations in one more area and I will talk about it in more detail. This is joint implementation of specific projects. Yes, indeed today the companies of the Russian Federation are building a nuclear power plant in Egypt (Rosatom), developing oil and gas deposits in Western Africa (LUKOIL) and producing bauxite and alumina (RUSAL). A special company is manufacturing Belarusian tractors in the Republic of South Africa. A Belarus-Egypt joint venture is producing cargo vehicles in Egypt.
I think the implementation of a joint agricultural programme between Belarus and Zimbabwe is a very interesting project. Last year, they had the biggest wheat harvest in 50 years, which practically meets this country’s needs for this crop.
We are planning to scale up positive examples of our cooperation. EAEU companies have the capacity to build up supplies of machines, tractors, trucks and municipal service vehicles, as well as high-tech equipment for producing and processing mineral resources, as the previous speaker said. This is a very big niche. Exports are insignificant for the time being, but it is possible to build them up.
I would like to emphasise that we are talking not just about trade but also about technology transfers – creation of localised production capacities, training of specialists, implementation of research and education programmes, and exports of the latest in ICT. This means organising work for the entire technological cycle. We have relevant technology and experience in carrying out joint projects in our Union.
Therefore, we believe this approach will make it possible to enhance the efficiency of the African economy and create new high-skill jobs, thereby fulfilling a social function. But we must certainly have stronger incentives for project cooperation.
To study this issue, we suggest establishing a Eurasian business mission to African countries under the aegis of the Eurasian Economic Commission and the Business Council of the EAEU (chaired this year by the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs headed by Mr Alexander Shokhin). Once it is completed we can draft a joint project under the working name “Eurasian Technology. Common Future.”
We would like to ask you, Mr President and our African partners to support this proposal. We are ready to work with our African friends also on other projects for the sake of fair and successful future.
Thank you for your attention.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you very much, Mr Myasnikovich.
<…>
See also
Plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum
July 27, 2023
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 27, 2023, 18:15
Text version