Events
Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko answered media questions
Following the Russian-Belarusian talks, the two leaders answered questions from the media.
September 15, 2023
12:25
Sochi
1 of 2
Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko answered media questions.
Question: Mr Putin, a couple of questions?
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Please, go ahead.
Question: Your comment and the one by the Vice-President of Laos [Pany Yathotou], which you made at the EEF plenary session, on the use of cluster munitions, is being widely discussed. The United States is now supplying such munitions to Ukraine. What is the latest information on the use of these weapons in the special military operation zone?
See also
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
September 15, 2023
Vladimir Putin: They are being used in the broadest possible way. But I have already commented on this, I have nothing to add. The only thing worth mentioning, perhaps, is that this situation, like a drop of water, reflects what is happening in the world as a whole. What I mean by that is that there is one country that thinks it is exceptional, and that country is the United States. That country even thinks it is allowed to do what it considers a crime – it is the United States that uses cluster munitions, using the Ukrainian army in this case.
I mean the country considers this a crime, but does it nonetheless, and this is the main problem of today's international relations. This is the reason why the overwhelming majority of participants in international communication have joined us in fighting to create a multipolar world, since no one sees this situation as acceptable. I said almost because even those countries that appear to be allies of the United States, I can assure you, they do not like this situation either, where they are reduced to the role of extras.
So yes, unfortunately, they are using them, they call it a crime and are still doing it.
Question: If I may, one more question. A broad discussion arose – again at the Eastern Economic Forum – over the possibility of peace talks between Russia and Ukraine and [US Secretary of State Antony] Blinken’s statement that “it takes two to tango” about Russia and Ukraine. How do you assess the prospects for talks?
Vladimir Putin: As for the Americans, they do not even know how to tango, they have a tendency to – for all the wonderful, amazing music, and beautiful movements – the United States is trying to approach everything from a position of force: through economic sanctions, or financial restrictions, or threats to use military force, and actually using it. They are lecturing others even though they have no idea how to do it and do not want to. Most likely, they just do not want to. This is the first point.
Second, I already said that we have never refused to hold talks. So, please, if the other party wants them, they should say so directly. I am speaking about it but the other side keeps silent.
Finally, tango is good, of course… I think Ukraine should not forget about its gopak dance. It is important, otherwise they will keep dancing to someone else’s tune. And by the way, everyone will have to perform the barynya dance or, in the best-case scenario, the kazachok.
Alexander Lukashenko: They sort of started dancing and held three rounds of talks in Belarus, then in Istanbul, and then [US Secretary of State Antony] Blinken and [US Secretary of Defence Lloyd] Austin told Zelensky…
Vladimir Putin: Gave a command, and that was it.
Alexander Lukashenko: Gave a command and he prohibited them to hold talks. The facts are on the table, they are obvious. So, they should not blame anyone.
Vladimir Putin: He signed a decree prohibiting talks.
Alexander Lukashenko: Exactly, they forbade themselves.
Question: The last question relates to Kim Jong-un’s visit. Many in the West believe that the visit will aggravate tensions in the region. They say that Russia all but asked North Korea to send volunteers to take part in the special military operation. What can you say on this matter?
Vladimir Putin: I can say that this is complete nonsense. A couple of days ago, I said that 270,000 of our men, our warriors signed contracts with the Russian Armed Forces. But it was old information. This morning it was reported to me that there were 300,000 contracts signed by people who – I want to emphasise this – are ready to sacrifice their lives for the interests of our Motherland, to protect Russia’s interests.
Yes, we pay them some money, which is much, much more than the average monthly salary in the country. But can money compensate for a death or a severe injury? Of course not. So first of all, our men who sign these contracts are guided by the most noble patriotic sentiments. It commands respect. This is the first thing.
Second, about some kind of provocations, escalations, and creating a threat to anyone. We do not threaten anyone. The largest threats in the world today are created by today’s ruling elites. They themselves say this. Several years ago, a former [US] Defence Secretary Mr [Robert] Gates, I think, said the greatest threat to the United States came from the territory where the Capitol or the White House is located. They talk about it themselves, while looking for a threat outside.
Therefore, I want to stress once again that this is complete nonsense: Korea is our neighbour, and we must build good neighbourly relations with our neighbours one way or another. Yes, there are certain specifics associated with the Korean Peninsula. We discuss this openly; we never violate anything; and in this case we are not going to violate anything. But, of course, we will look for opportunities to develop Russian-North Korean relations.
Alexander Lukashenko: Mr Putin, the Westerners have to count first how many of their mercenaries they have sent there, and how many are fighting there. There are dark-skinned, Asian, and white Americans, all of whom are fighting on the side of the Ukrainians. Why blame Russia for inviting someone there? So maybe that is why they need to do it.
Secondly, this is a dangerous statement on their part, because they dream about seeing their regular military units there, already lined up near the border in Poland. You have also talked about this. Military units have been formed and are ready to enter Ukraine. You need to look at yourself first and not reproach others.
Vladimir Putin: I absolutely agree.
By the way, we have detected foreign mercenaries and instructors both on the battlefield and in the units where training is carried out. I think yesterday or the day before yesterday someone was captured again.
We do not need to invite people from outside for combat operations. Moreover, I want to emphasise this again, 300,000 people signed contracts and came as volunteers. And moreover: the units that are now being formed are equipped with advanced types of weapons and equipment, and some of them are already 85–90 percent equipped.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 15, 2023, 12:25
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko at the Bocharov Ruchei residence.
September 15, 2023
12:00
Sochi
2 of 4
With President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Lukashenko,
We maintain contact and consultations on our relations and interaction, first of all, in the economy. Fortunately, everything is stable here and is developing sustainably.
I want to tell you in detail about the process of drafting the federal budget, which is about to be concluded. Everything is stable, which is good news. Why I am saying this: because you and I know well that the condition of the Russian economy affects our interaction within the Union State. In addition, we have mutual responsibilities and issues in this regard. I believe there is a need to align our positions on some issues.
See also
Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko answered media questions
September 15, 2023
As you know, I have recently met with the leader of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. I would like to inform you about our discussion on the developments in the region, which is also important, and, of course, our most pressing issue, the events in Ukraine as regards the Ukrainian crisis.
I am happy to see you. Thank you for agreeing to come.
President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko
: Mr President, thank you for the invitation.
First of all, I want to congratulate you on such an important stage of the electoral cycle: the single voting day was held in many regions. The results are well known, so I do not want to analyse them; it seems there have never been such results. These are impressive results for the President as well: all gubernatorial candidates that you supported were supported by the people. It is a big success.
Second, our integration cooperation. We have already stated that our officials did a good job fulfilling our instructions: more than 80 percent of tasks we set to the governments have been fulfilled and there are still three more months. I think that we will complete other issues, too.
I would like to inform you that there were not exactly disruptions but certain difficulties on the fuel market. We have stabilised the situation and supplied as much as the Russian Federation needed and the Government asked: I think 60,000 [tonnes] of diesel and gasoline each; and we will stabilise the situation on our common markets. If we have to decrease supplies to foreign markets and increase the internal demand, it is not a problem.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Alexander Lukashenko: This is why we address all these issues, both large and small. You are right that they tried to bend us to their will but failed. On the contrary, we somehow mobilised our resources, which even you did not expect, I know, and I did not expect that we could hold out either. Yes, we are a little poorer; our lives are a little poorer, but just a little bit. I think that next year will be a good one and we will reach the pre-sanctions period in our economy.
Miscellaneous issues, starting from the military-industrial complex and other things related to the Ukrainian conflict, have been almost resolved. If there is something left, then we know in which direction we should move.
Thank you once again for the invitation. I watched carefully how hard you worked over the past few days. It was nice to see you with [Chairman of State Affairs of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea] Kim Jong-un at the Vostochny Space Centre, because I have been there myself, and it was somehow more pleasant knowing that you and I visited this space centre earlier.
I think we can consider trilateral cooperation with North Korea and Russia. I know the Koreans are very interested in Russia and I think that Belarus will find something to work on considering the existing problems.
I will tell you about our cooperation with Africa, with African countries. The leader of Equatorial Guinea, a very famous and forward-looking person, visited the Republic of Belarus. We also enjoy joint work on the African track.
In short, it seemed that we have dealt with all issues but they keep accumulating, so we need to consult each other in a timely manner.
I appreciate that you have found the time for us to talk and discuss our future steps, even though it has been a tiring time for you with all those flights.
Vladimir Putin: I visited our two major construction projects related to natural gas and gas conversion. What I want to say about the restrictions imposed on us: European companies refused to deliver equipment because maybe they believed that we lacked competences. We have restored all our competences, all of them. We only needed to adjust the schedule slightly, by several months. Major, global-scale facilities will be put into operation in the nearest future. Those who were forced – and our European partners keep saying that they were forced to stop working with us – they are suffering huge losses and loss of profits.
Moreover, some major high-tech companies had to lay off 50 percent and sometimes even 70 percent of their staff. We are restoring them and are building additional engineering competences, which is very good. Yes, we do need to adjust the deadlines and make do with less, but the advantage is obvious.
Yes, we still have much to work on, especially when it comes to advanced technology, but if the situation was different… The day before yesterday, my colleagues reported that new competences in this area are being built, and it was very important to hear this.
We will discuss that later and I will tell you more.
<…>
Geography
Belarus
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Lukashenko Alexander
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 15, 2023, 12:00
Text version