Events
Meeting with heads of security agencies
The President held a meeting with heads of security agencies.
June 26, 2023
23:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
8 of 8
Meeting with heads of security agencies. Photo: Valery Sharifulin, TASS
The meeting was attended by Prosecutor General Igor Krasnov
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev
, Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev
, Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
, Director of the Federal Security Service Alexander Bortnikov
, Director of the Federal Service of National Guard Troops Viktor Zolotov
, Director of the Federal Guard Service Dmitry Kochnev, Chairman of the Investigative Committee Alexander Bastrykin
.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, colleagues.
I have brought you together to thank you for the work you have done over these past few days, to discuss the current situation, and to talk about the challenges we face as a result of the analysis of the events that have taken place in the country.
Let's begin.
<…>
Topics
National security
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 26, 2023, 23:00
Text versionEvents
Address to citizens of Russia
June 26, 2023
22:10
The Kremlin, Moscow
Address to citizens of Russia.
Friends,
Today, I am addressing the citizens of Russia once again. Thank you for your restraint, cohesion and patriotism. This civic solidarity shows that any blackmail, any attempt to stage domestic turmoil is doomed to fail.
I will repeat – society and the executive and legislative branches of government at all levels displayed high consolidation. Public organisations, religious denominations, the leading political parties and actually all of Russian society held a firm line, taking an explicit position of supporting constitutional order. The main thing – responsibility for the destiny of the Fatherland – has united everyone, brought our people together.
I will emphasise that all necessary decisions to neutralise the emerged threat and protect the constitutional system, the life and security of our citizens were made instantly, from the very beginning of the events.
An armed mutiny would have been suppressed in any event. Mutiny plotters, despite the loss of adequacy, were bound to realise that. They understood everything, including the fact that their actions were criminal in nature, aimed at polarising people and weakening the country, which is currently countering an enormous external threat and unprecedented pressure from the outside. They did this at a time when our comrades are dying on the frontline with the words “Not a step back!”
However, having betrayed their country and their people, the leaders of this mutiny also betrayed those whom they drew into their crime. They lied to them, pushed them to their death, putting them under attack, forcing them to shoot their people.
It was exactly this outcome, fratricide, that the enemies of Russia – the neo-Nazis in Kiev, their Western patrons and other national traitors – wanted to see. They wanted Russian soldiers to kill each other; they wanted the military and civilians to die; they wanted Russia to lose eventually, and our society to break up and perish in a bloody feud.
They were rubbing their hands together and dreaming of revenge for their failures at the frontline and in the course of the so-called counteroffensive, but they miscalculated.
I want to thank all our servicemen, law enforcement and special services officers who stood in the mutineers’ way, remaining faithful to their duty, their oath and their people. Courage and self-sacrifice of the fallen hero pilots have saved Russia from tragic and devastating consequences.
At the same time, we knew before and know now that the majority of Wagner Group soldiers and commanders are also Russian patriots, loyal to their people and their state. Their courage on the battlefield when liberating Donbass and Novorossiya proves this. An attempt was made to use them without their knowledge against their comrades-in-arms with whom they were fighting shoulder to shoulder for their country and its future.
That is why, as soon as these events started to unfold, in keeping with my direct instructions, steps were taken to avoid spilling blood. It required time, among other things, as those who made a mistake had to be given a chance to change their minds, to realise that their actions would be strongly rejected by society, to understand what tragic and devastating consequences for Russia, for our country the reckless attempt they had been drawn into, was leading to.
I express my gratitude to those Wagner Group soldiers and commanders who had taken the right decision, the only one possible – they chose not to engage in fratricidal bloodshed and stopped before reaching the point of no return.
Today, you have the opportunity to continue your service to Russia by signing a contract with the Defence Ministry or other law enforcement or security agency or return home. Those who want to are free to go to Belarus. I will keep my promise. Again, everyone is free to decide on their own, but I believe their choice will be that of Russian soldiers who realise they have made a tragic mistake.
I am grateful to President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko for his efforts and contribution to the peaceful settlement of the situation.
I would like to repeat that the patriotic sentiments of our people and the consolidation of Russian society played a decisive role during these days. This support has allowed us to pull through the toughest challenges and trials for our Motherland together.
Thank you for this.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 26, 2023, 22:10
Text versionEvents
Video address to the participants and guests of the 11th International Youth Industrial Forum “Engineers of the Future 2023”
June 26, 2023
13:20
Video address to the participants and guests of the 11th International Youth Industrial Forum “Engineers of the Future 2023”
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
Please accept my greetings on the start of the International Youth Industrial Forum Engineers of the Future.
The forum has brought together young engineers, researchers, technologists, university students and postgraduates, representatives of public organisations from the majority of Russian regions and a number of foreign countries.
It is symbolic that the forum is taking place in Tula, which has always been famous for its masters, dynasties of workers, engineers and gunsmiths.
Human resources potential largely determines the steady development of the domestic industry today, increasing its competitive advantages, strengthening its positions both on the domestic and global markets, and successfully fulfilling such key tasks as strengthening the country's security, economic and technological sovereignty.
This is why it is so important that more and more young professionals – competent, knowledgeable, creative and forward-thinking, ready to take responsibility and offer non-standard solutions – come to work for our companies.
It is these young people, experienced professionals and our production teams that have ensured the stable operation of Russian industry and its development in the conditions of major external challenges and achieved growth in the output of civil and defence products, which are vital for the country.
I would like to stress that the development and modernisation of industry is our unconditional priority. We will continue to promote the introduction of the latest technology, digital solutions and cutting-edge environmental standards, and will work together with businesses, regions and the scientific community to update vocational education, training and retraining curricula, including for such basic, backbone industries as machine building, ship and aircraft building, machine-tool and instrument building, robotics and electronics, manufacturing of industrial and power equipment.
This is the industry of the future, as well as a huge space for self-fulfilment and professional growth.
I wish success to all young people who work at our enterprises and plants, and of course to today's graduates of schools, universities, colleges and technical schools who intend to engage in real production and to work in Russia’s industrial sector.
Forum participants,
You have a content-filled and busy programme ahead of you, including discussions, presentations, roundtables with CEOs of major corporations, scientists and politicians, as well as many other interesting educational, business, sports and cultural events.
I would like to thank the Russian Union of Machine Builders, the Federal Agency for Youth Affairs, the League of Assistance to Defence Industry Enterprises association, Rostec Corporation and other domestic companies for their contribution to organising this forum.
I am sure it will contribute to the development of human resources potential in the leading sectors of Russian industry, enhance the reputation and prestige of engineering and industrial professions, and, of course, make it possible to strengthen partnership relations and launch new joint projects.
I wish all the participants and guests of the forum fruitful work and success.
Geography
Tula Region
Topics
Industry
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 26, 2023, 13:20
Text version