Events
Meeting with Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov
Vladimir Putin met with Gennady Zyuganov, leader of the Russian Federation Communist Party faction in the State Duma.
February 13, 2023
16:35
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Zyuganov, it has been a while since we agreed to sit down and discuss the current situation and our interaction.
Tell me, the 30th anniversary of the creation of the Communist Party is today or tomorrow?
Leader of the Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov
: The 2nd Extraordinary Restoration Congress began 30 years ago today. The ruling was handed down by the Constitutional Court, where we sat for hearings for eight months. I must give it to Mr Zorkin
[Constitutional Court Chairman], he did not cave in, even though the pressure was overwhelming.
Vladimir Putin: To ban the party?
Gennady Zyuganov: They wanted to close down everyone.
Importantly, when we made it clear that almost everyone starting from Georgy Zhukov and Mikhail Sholokhov were communists, and this organisation cannot be outlawed without upsetting the balance… There were only two people on the Constitutional Court who were not CPSU members, but they still handed down that ruling. We, including myself, made proper preparations.
Tomorrow will mark 30 years since I was elected. All told, you have someone with vast political experience sitting in front of you.
Vladimir Putin: I am aware of that.
Mr Zyuganov, happy anniversary to you and your party members. Congratulations to you on tomorrow’s election anniversary.
I hope as a force representing a significant part of the country’s patriotic movement, the Communist Party will remain such going forward. The party makes a substantial contribution to the political discussion and the quest for the best solutions to move the country forward in the social sphere, the economy, defence and security – we have never had any differences on that level, I think. On the contrary, the Communist Party was often one step ahead and raised national security issues of today and tomorrow with authorities at all levels. Without a doubt, our dialogue is now doubly or even triply important.
I am pleased to see you.
Gennady Zyuganov: Thank you, Mr President.
It should be said that you have always been receptive to our requests, proposals, and legislative initiatives. In this regard, we value our dialogue, especially now that, in fact, a crusade and a new war have been declared on our civilisation and the entire Russian world.
Social cohesion, mobilisation of all forces, parties, and movements…What matters most now is the “party of Russia,” its sovereignty, independence and our common freedom. The entire left-wing patriotic bloc that I head – 56 organisations in all – is standing behind it strongly as one. We have done much for Donbass, with the 105th humanitarian convoy about to leave soon. We have sent 17,000 tonnes of cargo, we provide regular help, and welcomed 12,000 children to Russia.
You supported Iosif Kobzon and us when we were founding the Children of Russia to Children of Donbass movement. We will welcome 2,000 more children to Snegiri this year.
By the way, engaging with children, schoolchildren and educators is extremely important, since children were brainwashed en masse by filthy Nazi propaganda. In two weeks, more children will come, and we will show them Red Square, the Kremlin, the Exhibition of Achievements of the National Economy, places of military glory, and the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour. They are new people by the time they go back. Your instruction to the governors, regions, universities, schools, and vocational schools was important. They invite and welcome the children, giving rise to good and friendly relations without which it is impossible to bring life back to normal.
I believe the fight against Nazis today has taken on a fateful significance. I worked for 20 years at the Council of Europe and I never thought that Europe could become so submissive to the Americans who have become completely brazen of late. But, I hope, we must win – and we will win.
Vladimir Putin: That is the way it is going to be. Thank you.
Gennady Zyuganov: Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Zyuganov Gennady
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 13, 2023, 16:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with LDPR leader Leonid Slutsky
Vladimir Putin met with head of the Liberal-Democratic Party of Russia State Duma faction Leonid Slutsky in Novo-Ogaryovo.
February 13, 2023
18:40
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
LDPR leader Leonid Slutsky
: Mr President, thank you very much for the meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Slutsky, we are in touch in general – we meet regularly at different events, but separate meetings are always needed, partly because of the current situation in the country.
Leonid Slutsky: Thank you once again.
Mr President, it was hard to see the New Year in without Vladimir Zhirinovsky. At the same time, the party is growing stronger and bigger – there are almost 350,000 of us, including 1,500 volunteers that actively worked in the new territories before they received this status.
Since the first days, we wholeheartedly supported the special military operation. Now we have taken under our wing the sewing battalions – the “Sewing for our people” movement. There are thousands of these devoted women sewing camouflage nets, balaclava helmets and jackets. These women are helping to save our men, their health and lives at the frontline just as they are helping to save us.
Of course, today I am grateful to you for this opportunity to report on some of the ideas of our parliamentary party. They are not revolutionary or breakthrough. Today, people do not need a breakthrough. They need common sense and a constructive position. If it is constructive, it should not remain an opposition view but be closer to people’s needs to resolve problems that we are really facing every day.
Our ideas sometimes sound modest. We believe it is necessary to introduce a uniform minimum package to support volunteers and mobilised fighters in various regions of the Federation. These should be uniform norms. We need to support the creation of nursery groups for toddlers from 2 months to 18 months to encourage women to feel more confident and fulfil their demographic-oriented tasks.
We also have other proposals – on support for the participants in the special military operation and those that are supporting it on the home front, which is no less important. The same applies to saving the number of population and demography. Some of these proposals were made by Vladimir Zhirinovsky.
We are working with the Government closer and more effectively than ever before. We are being heard; our concepts are being translated into life and becoming effective laws – they are turning into mechanisms that works.
And, of course, since I retained my position of the Chair of the State Duma Committee on International Affairs, I am extremely grateful to you for the decision to confer on me the title of Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador. This is a high responsibility, especially today, and therefore I will report to you on fulfilling your instructions on the African track and the very important direction – the Arab states of the Persian Gulf.
Vladimir Putin: Very well, Mr Slutsky. I know that your proposals are always specific, practical.
Leonid Slutsky: Absolutely.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s go over to them, discuss them.
<…>
Topics
Parties
Persons
Slutsky Leonid
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: February 13, 2023, 18:40
Text version