Events
Meeting with head of Roscosmos Yury Borisov
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Director General of the Roscosmos State Space Corporation Yury Borisov.
January 19, 2023
13:30
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
Meeting with Roscosmos General Director Yury Borisov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Borisov, there is no need to explain why the space sector is so important. It is critical for science, the national economy, and for ensuring the country’s defence capability.
There are quite a few matters that must be addressed: contract execution terms, how the sector’s economy works in general, its financial state and development plans. Of course, we regularly discuss this with you.
I suggest we get down to work.
Head of Roscosmos Yury Borisov
: Mr President, I am ready to report to you on the current state of the space sector, its financial and economic standing.
Let me begin with the defence order. Just like Russia’s defence sector in general, the space industry has been maintaining good momentum while carrying out all the initiatives as planned and will do everything to deliver on time and up to standard.
As you know, demand for space-related services is growing. Allow me to describe the current state of the Russian space group and the plans to expand it considerably both quality and quantity-wise in the near future.
Of course, I will also talk about the manned flight programme. We are now working proactively on creating a Russian orbital station.
I will also touch upon space research, which is something that always matters, in any situation.
I am ready to report on the situation at the Vostochny Space Launch Centre.
Vladimir Putin: Let’s begin with Vostochny.
Yury Borisov: Very well.
Mr President, work at the Vostochny Space Launch Centre has gathered good momentum, and the plans for stage two of the Angara-5 launchpad will be carried out on time. We expect construction work to be completed by the middle of the year and all installation and launch preparations to be completed by the end of the year, as set forth in your executive order. In this regard, the situation is now stable.
Krokus, a construction company owned by [businessman Araz] Agalarov has been doing a great job. The construction of the runway has been completed, and it is a beauty.
Vladimir Putin: An airfield?
Yury Borisov: Yes. An airfield complex will be built by the end of 2023, so the situation has stabilised. We hope that the construction contractors will not let us down in 2023 either.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
<…>
Topics
Space
Persons
Borisov Yury
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: January 19, 2023, 13:30
Text version