Events
BRICS leaders’ extended format meeting
August 23, 2023
13:35
3 of 4
During the BRICS Summit expanded format meeting (via videoconference).
President of South Africa Cyril Ramaphosa
, President of Russia Vladimir Putin (via videconference), President of Brazil Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva
, Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi
, and President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping
held an expanded format meeting.
The 15th BRICS summit is taking place on August 22–24 in Johannesburg, South Africa.
* * *
Remarks by President of the Russian Federation at the BRICS Summit expanded format meeting
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: President Ramaphosa, President Lula, Prime Minister Modi, President Xi Jinping, friends, colleagues,
I would like to begin by thanking our South African friends for everything they have done as part of their BRICS chairmanship this year.
Those of my colleagues who took the floor before me praised BRICS for its efforts, and overall we share this assessment. This association of five nations has established itself on the international stage as a respected entity and has been consistently strengthening its standing in international affairs.
See also
Video Address to the Participants in the BRICS Business Forum
August 22, 2023
Informal meeting of the BRICS leaders
August 22, 2023
BRICS has been following a forward-looking strategic course which meets the aspirations of a significant portion of the international community, the so-called global majority. By acting in a coordinated manner and based on the principles of equality, supporting each other as partners and taking each other’s interests into account, we tackle the most urgent issues on the global and regional agendas.
Importantly, we are all united in our commitment to shaping a multipolar world order with genuine justice, based on the international law and in keeping with the key principles set forth in the UN Charter, including sovereignty and respecting the right of every nation to follow its own development model. We oppose hegemonies of any kind and the exceptional status that some countries aspire to, as well as the new policy it entails, a policy of continued neo-colonialism.
Let me point out that it was the attempts by some countries to preserve their global hegemony that paved the way to the deep crisis in Ukraine. It started when an anti-constitutional government coup took place in this country with the help of the Western countries. This was followed by the unleashing of a war against people who refused to accept this coup. It was a cruel war, a war of extermination, which lasted for eight years.
Russia decided to side with people who are fighting for their culture, their traditions, language and future. Stopping the war unleashed by the West and its satellites in Ukraine against the people of Donbass is the only thing that defines our actions in Ukraine.
We are grateful to our BRICS colleagues who are active in trying to end this situation and achieve a just settlement by peaceful means.
Colleagues, what matters is that we all unanimously stand in favour of a multipolar world order that is truly fair and based on international law.
From year to year, the BRICS countries are increasing their potential. As was already mentioned, the five partner states, with a total population exceeding 3 billion, account for a greater share in global GDP than the so-called Group of Seven in terms of purchasing power parity. Over the past decade, BRICS countries have doubled their investment in the global economy, and their total exports have reached 20 percent of the global total.
The partner countries are successfully implementing their Strategy for BRICS Economic Partnership 2025. In particular, they are strengthening five-sided cooperation in such areas as diversification of supply chains, de-dollarisation and the transition to national currencies in mutual transactions, digital economy, support for small and medium-sized businesses, and fair technology transfer. And of course, businesses are taking an active part in these processes. The BRICS Business Council and the BRICS Women's Business Alliance are putting in a lot of effort, something the host of today's meeting, President Ramaphosa, has already mentioned, and the leaders of these bodies are present here.
An important priority of BRICS cooperation is the creation of new sustainable and safe transport routes. Speaking to the participants of the BRICS Business Forum, I have mentioned the relevance of accelerated development of transcontinental routes such as the North-South corridor, which will connect Russian ports in the northern seas and the Baltic Sea with sea terminals in the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean and in the future, will be able to facilitate annual transit of up to 30 million tonnes of cargo.
We believe that the time has come to establish a permanent BRICS transport commission, which would deal not only with the North-South project, but also on a broader scale with the development of logistics and transport corridors, interregional and global. If our partners agree, the Russian side could work on this idea as part of its BRICS chairmanship in 2024.
Of course, we welcome closer ties between the five BRICS countries in promoting innovation around the world. We expect cooperation as part of the BRICS initiative to establish an international infrastructure network with a dedicated fund, which could be used to support and develop it. Russia stands ready to share the experience it has and the best practices, including in digital transformation and using artificial intelligence.
We are also committed to active involvement in implementing the agreements to set up a joint working group on nuclear medicine, and are interested in finding real-world applications for the BRICS Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Cooperation Alliance. Russia fully supports the proposal by our South African colleagues to hold a dedicated ministerial meeting on women, given the need to empower women in politics, economics and social affairs in all our countries.
Colleagues,
Russia will assume the BRICS Chairmanship next year. Its motto will be Strengthening Multilateralism for Justice in Global Development and Security. We intend to hold about 200 events on political, economic and social matters in over ten Russian cities.
We expect to hold the BRICS Summit in October 2024 in Kazan, and will coordinate the exact dates with our colleagues through diplomatic channels. The events in the BRICS+/outreach format, which has proven its worth, will also take place there.
During its Chairmanship, Russia is committed to doing everything it takes to contribute effectively to carrying out the decisions adopted at this summit, including those related to adding new participants to this association. We will work closely with our partners on foreign policy matters and in the key international platforms, primarily the United Nations, while also holding regular meetings of senior security officials.
Of course, we will attach primary importance to the urgent tasks such as fighting terrorism and the spread of terrorist ideology, as well as countering money laundering and recovering criminal assets.
By the way, we are grateful to our partners for their support within the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). We hope that this solidarity continues.
We will facilitate the further comprehensive implementation of the BRICS Economic Partnership Strategy until 2025 and the development of new long-term cooperation guidelines. As we see it, they should include efforts to enhance our states’ role in the international monetary and financial system, develop interbank cooperation, expand the use of national currencies, and promote collaboration between tax, customs, and anti-monopoly agencies.
Russian priorities undoubtedly include an intention to build up partnership in science and innovations, healthcare, education, and humanitarian ties as a whole. Cultural and civilisational diversity is one of the supporting pillars of the new multipolar world order and implies the creation of an integral and free space for cultural exchange, arts, and creativity.
I believe that the time is ripe for a serious conversation with our BRICS partners, and, incidentally, with our SCO partners, and, of importance to us, with our CIS partners and other countries, about the future of culture in the world, as well as about preserving and enhancing the world cultural heritage. By the way, the 9th International Cultural Forum, scheduled to be held in the Russian city of St Petersburg from November 16 to 18 this year, might provide a venue for this dialogue.
Russia, to be sure, will continue to promote in every way the further development of sports contacts and youth exchanges. Specifically, the BRICS Games are scheduled for June 2024. We also will be glad to welcome teams from BRICS countries at the Games of the Future international tournament to be held in Kazan next year. These competitions are a unique combination of dynamic athletic disciplines with the most popular video games and technological devices. A good opportunity for contacts and friendly communication will present itself at the World Youth Festival in Sochi in March 2024.
In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that during its chairmanship Russia will collaborate with its BRICS partners in the most constructive manner to further strengthen the role and prestige of the Five, which is certain to grow.
Thank you for your time.
Additional
Johannesburg II Declaration, XV BRICS Summit
PDF, 336.5 kB
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Persons
Lula da Silva Luiz Inacio
Modi Narendra
Ramaphosa Cyril
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2023, 13:35
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Acting Governor of Zaporozhye Region Yevgeny Balitsky
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Acting Governor of Zaporozhye Region Yevgeny Balitsky.
August 23, 2023
01:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 4
Acting Governor of Zaporozhye Region Yevgeny Balitsky.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Balitsky, good evening. Where shall we start?
Acting Governor of Zaporozhye Region Yevgeny Balitsky
: Mr President, first, I would like to express my deep gratitude for your initiative in early May to relocate people. This effort helped save several dozen lives because the adversary – the Nazi regime – and its accomplices continue to shell the cities located along the frontline.
Let me share just one small example with you. Parents expressed their deep gratitude and asked me to pass on their message to you. After we launched the relocation effort on May 4, in a matter of two days a school in Tokmak was hit by an artillery shell. But the children were not there anymore, so no one was hurt. For that, you have the deepest gratitude of the parents of these schoolchildren.
Mr President, I would like to say a few words about September 1, since this is a very important topic. This will be the second Knowledge Day for us since joining Russia, reuniting with our homeland. Mr Kiriyenko [First Deputy Head of the Presidential Executive Office] keeps a close eye on this situation. He visited us just the other day and we toured schools together. I can assure you that we have textbooks for all students. The schools are ready to offer the whole range of education and development opportunities along with extracurricular activities. We paid all the dues earmarked to this effect in the budget to the teachers who teach extracurricular activities. The National Guard has been licenced to provide security at all schools, and all first to fourth graders will receive free meals. I met with the teachers, and they asked me to express their deep gratitude to you.
The land route crossing the Zaporozhye Region along the Sea of Azov, which is now our internal waters, is another important item. This route is fully operational. The decision you and the Government took to rebuild this road was very wise and timely, I have to say, because today it serves us well. Of course, the Nazis continue targeting infrastructure, including the Crimean Bridge, and we understand this. Today, we are reaping the fruits of past efforts.
People cross the Zaporozhye Region with words of gratitude – I am saying this in all honesty. I cannot say for Russia as a whole since I do not travel much around the country these days, but our people have a lot of gratitude for this road. It was my duty to convey these words of gratitude to you.
And these are not just words. Since we constantly conduct sociological surveys, we hear respondents talk about what Russia is doing in their region, how this is being done, and how considerate every social agency is about their needs. These surveys highly commend our work; you can see this. Today, 87 percent of residents of the Zaporozhye Region support you as the head of the country; the United Russia party has 71 percent support. We are confident that United Russia will get a well-deserved percent of the vote reflecting the work it has been doing under your leadership.
Speaking of the elections, we have compiled a complete list of candidates for deputies of the legislative assembly. I would like to show it to you and report that we are fully prepared for the elections. Most importantly, we are prepared in terms of the actions we have been taking. We consider the work we have been doing as the underlying basis and the main goal set by you and by the Government of the Russian Federation.
I can say a few words about the strategic concept of the socio-economic development of the Zaporozhye Region. It is a long document, so I did not bring all of it here. I just wanted to go over the strategy that we are proposing and ask for your support, because this document is at the core of our election platform.
I heard your speech in Beijing on May 14, 2017, and you said something like “greater Russia is not an abstract geopolitical concept, but a civilisational project aimed at the future.” And you know, even then, in 2017, I took in the tone of your words. I understand perfectly well that the Russian world is boundless; but we have to fight for it. And many Russian politicians such as Peter I or Anna Ioannovna did that by force of arms; they took Crimea but were forced to leave. And only Catherine, thanks to her wisdom and to Potemkin, was able to create an outpost of Russia in the south by building cities there and ensuring economic sustainability.
We believe that the Zaporozhye Region should become a similar outpost, with its own advantageous geopolitical and logistical significance.
Vladimir Putin: The potential is great indeed.
Yevgeny Balitsky: It would not be enough just to protect people; the most important task is for them to stay and live there. To do this, we need to create a number of economic prerequisites, the right conditions for people to live, love each other, and have children from this love.
We took the cue from what the civilian and military administration did last year and did not go down the path of trial and error as was the case in the Donetsk and Lugansk republics. Perhaps, some mistakes were made in Crimea as well. We tried to learn as much as we could from the experience of our colleagues in these regions to avoid making the same mistakes and tried to manage the economy in the most effective manner. That way, we created state-owned enterprises. Following our belief that the state is the most important and responsible “operator” of the people's lives, we have created 20 state-run companies such as the State Grain Operator, Melitopol Railway, or the Berdyansk Commercial Sea Port, and a company that provides security guard services to schools and other sites. All of them are state bodies. Every fourth person is working in the public sector today. We believe that this is the right thing to do as long as the SMO continues. After the SMO is over, we will – maybe it is not the most popular word – proceed to denationalising the economy. So far, doing this has allowed us to preserve abandoned enterprises and to create economic potential in them, as well as to reestablish perhaps not 100 percent, but at least most of the economic potential.
We were guided primarily by social justice considerations when we were doing this. We did not want the people to have the sense that some oligarchs had fled only to be replaced by other oligarchs. That’s why we use public-private partnership arrangements to place enterprises under management and have the state keep at least 25 percent interest in them. This makes it possible for us to create additional savings that go to the Zaporozhye Region budget, the way they are doing it in Tatarstan. We used these arrangements to create a major agency that will provide financial help and create innovation-driven and education platforms that include kindergartens, schools, universities, and colleges, which will be able to develop the way we envision. That includes renovating churches and monuments.
This will allow us to create a joint-stock company “Novoye Priazovye” which we will support with state property transferred under public-private partnership arrangements. For example, if we issue a subsidy to a farmer, he will be expected to engage in what we can provide to them. Here is what it is all about. Let's say that, according to our information, the production of textiles in the Russian Federation is wanting. We can sow hemp in the Zaporozhye Region. Technical hemp makes it possible for us to sew coarse clothing, which is what we are subsidising. By the way, it is also about gunpowder. So, a planned economy gives us the opportunity to influence the situation and production. This is part of the Soviet past, and implementing it, we think, is quite a good idea.
Vladimir Putin: Fibre crops?
Yevgeny Balitsky: Yes.
I will not describe, Mr President, the entire concept, because it would take a lot of time. Please support our initiative. I have discussed it, of course, with Mr Kiriyenko and Mr Khusnullin [Deputy Prime Minister] – he has his own opinion as regards public ownership – but generally they have supported our concept, and, if you do not object, there is a letter, and we ask that you please support our construct for ministries and agencies to start working on it.
Vladimir Putin: We will support it, of course.
But, you know, I would like to hear your assessment of one pressing and important issue. I mean energy. The lack of energy resources is affecting all areas of life. What are the prospects in this regard and what kind of assistance do you need?
Yevgeny Balitsky: We had a meeting with Energy Minister Nikolai Shulginov. According to the decision taken by Marat Khusnullin’s working group, we have kept all power capacities of up to 35,000 kV for ourselves and handed everything higher over to the Ministry of Energy. We have also transferred our wind generation capacities, as well as, according to your decision, the nuclear power station and we will transfer the thermal power plant. We are keeping everything that is lower than 35,000 kV. Ours is a transit region, and when we push back the frontline, the Zaporozhye Region will get a handsome transit income. We are fully provided with electric energy. Of course, we would have coped had we kept for ourselves all the “high” capacities. I think we would have managed, given that we sustained them for one and a half years. But we will support the decision on the transfer.
Vladimir Putin: Is gas installation still a problem?
Yevgeny Balitsky: Yes, it is. Four of our districts out of 13 are yet to get gas distribution infrastructure. I mean parts of them. They are in the south – the Primorsky District and further north.
We will continue to install gas distribution infrastructure. A new pipeline was built under a Government decision, after the Nazi authorities switched off the Zaporozhye Region. The pipeline branched off from the Donbass gas system and crossed the region’s lower part. Today, this pipeline fully supplies the whole of the Zaporozhye Region, including those districts. We hope to install 100 percent of gas infrastructure within the next year.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent. This is something you should strive for. I am sure you will manage.
I see that your entire team is mobilised in the positive sense of the word. I hope that people will see and feel it, despite the difficulties that are besetting both people and your administration. After all, the economic and social situation is being stabilised. Of course, much has to be done to rebuild, but we will certainly get it done, and we will keep helping you.
Yevgeny Balitsky: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Zaporozhye Region
Topics
Regions
Persons
Balitsky Yevgeny
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2023, 01:50
Text versionEvents
Celebrating the 80th anniversary of victory in the Battle of Kursk
The President spoke at a gala event devoted to the 80th anniversary of the victory over the Nazi German invaders in the Battle of Kursk in the village of Ponyri, Kursk Region, and presented state awards to participants in the special military operation.
August 23, 2023
21:00
Village of Ponyri, Kursk Region
7 of 12
The President presented state awards to participants in the special military operation. Photo: Maxim Blinov, RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good evening, dear friends.
Today, we are celebrating the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Kursk Bulge, in the Battle of Kursk.
I sincerely congratulate all people of Russia on this event, and, of course, primarily our dear veterans and, with special feeling, the people of the Kursk, Belgorod, Oryol and Voronezh regions. The fighting of the heroic Salient of Fire took place on these lands, the endless fields, the copse, the heights. The Salient of Fire will remain forever one of the pinnacles of the great feats of our people.
This amazing Battle of Kursk memorial is unveiled in honour of the achievement here, in the village of Ponyri. The significance of the victory in this landmark battle cannot be overestimated: it destroyed and eliminated the striking power of the Nazis, marking a turning point in the Second World War. This was where Hitler was planning to take revenge for the defeat in Stalingrad, believing that his tank divisions and Waffen-SS troops would force a breakthrough and then roll to the east. Instead, they encountered the unbending stamina and valour of our soldiers and commanders, battle-hardened fighters of the Red Army – and the Nazi onslaught failed.
The Nazis were stopped and driven back to their already imminent and inevitable collapse, because no tiger, panther or other beast could break the spirit of the Soviet soldiers.
The Battle for Kursk lasted almost two months. A large tank battle near Prokhorovka was its main event. Hundreds of tanks converged on a narrow section of the front in a counter battle. The land was literally burning under them.
We will never forget how fiercely the tank crews, infantry, pilots, sappers and gunners – all those who fought for victory in the Battle of Kursk – crushed the enemy. There were residents of nearby villages, women and teenagers among them and they also accomplished what seemed impossible. Almost in one month, they built a 95 kilometre railway under enemy fire, thus cutting the delivery times for combat hardware and ammunition in half.
Dear friends!
Today, high state awards will be presented at this legendary Kursk site. They are being presented to our heroes – military personnel, participants in the special military operation who are worthy of the glory of the heroes of the Kursk Bulge – those who fought against the Nazis in the summer 1943.
Like in the years of the Great Patriotic War, the brunt of the burden of fighting is primarily borne by our soldiers, those who are on the frontline – the sergeants, platoon, company and battalion commanders, riflemen and sappers, reconnaissance and communications personnel, tank and combat vehicle crews, gunners and pilots.
All of our military is fighting boldly and resolutely. All of those in the special military operation are united by their loyalty to the Motherland and commitment to their military oath.
Today, awards will be presented to the most distinguished military personnel of the 127th Motorised Rifle Division of the Fifth Combined Arms Army. Hero of Russia Gold Stars will be conferred on Lieutenant Alexander Levakov, Corporal Philip Yevseyev, and Corporal Alexei Neustroyev.
This well-coordinated tank crew engaged in battle against superior enemy forces and accomplished what seemed impossible – it accomplished a great feat by not only winning the battle but also by saving its comrades whose tank had been hit.
The title of Hero of Russia is also awarded to Senior Lieutenant Rasim Baksikov. During intense fighting, he displayed personal courage and heroism.
The Medal for Bravery will be presented to Corporal Ilya Gavrilov. Skillfully using a drone, he identified an enemy location and adjusted our artillery fire with precision. And, his effective interaction with the tank crew helped carry out complicated combat missions.
Dear comrades! I am now addressing our military. I am grateful to you for your service, and I am proud of you!
And, of course, I would like to congratulate again, from my heart, the citizens of Russia on the 80th anniversary of victory in the Battle of Kursk, at the Kursk Bulge!
Thank you!
Alexei Neustroyev: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
Please let me express my gratitude to you personally and to the leadership of the Defence Ministry on behalf of our entire tank crew for such high praise of our military activity.
The tank crewmen from our military unit asked me to tell you, Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief, that we will continue to honourably fulfill all tasks and do everything in our power to protect our Motherland.
Vladimir Putin: I congratulate all those presented with state awards, and all of us and all of Russia on this wonderful holiday, the victory of Kursk Bulge.
Geography
Kursk Region
Topics
Great Patriotic War
Regions
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2023, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Acting Head of the Lugansk People’s Republic Leonid Pasechnik
Vladimir Putin held a working meeting at the Kremlin with Acting Head of the Lugansk People’s Republic Leonid Pasechnik.
August 23, 2023
01:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
1 of 3
With Acting Head of the Lugansk People’s Republic Leonid Pasechnik.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: How is it going, Mr Pasechnik?
Acting Head of the Lugansk People’s Republic Leonid Pasechnik
: All right, thank you.
Mr President, I would like to report that, unfortunately, the situation in the republic remains tense. However, I must point out that it is quite stable without any major escalation. Of course, this tension results from the fact that the line of contact passes through part of the territory of the republic or is very close to it. In fact, a full-scale war is unfolding along this line. However, the relative stability we have been able to achieve and the way we expect the situation to develop enable us to deliver on the objectives we face.
(Leonid Pasechnik went on to talk about efforts to form the executive bodies of the Lugansk People’s Republic, the local government, and about defining the legal standing of the regional agencies as per the federal law, as well as ensuring that the budget system becomes fully operational. Mr Pasechnik pointed out that the new ministries were working on the national projects, federal programmes and the republic’s socioeconomic development programmes for 2023–2025).
In keeping with your Executive Order, we have established the Lugansk People’s Republic’s defence headquarters. It performs its mission by bringing together all law enforcement agencies and other relevant ministries and agencies. Its main task is to arrange effective cooperation in the decision-making process and undertake initiatives aimed at defending our national border, including our republic, from the Ukrainian aggression. We are organising activities aimed at providing maximum assistance and support to the service personnel serving along the line of contact. Overall, we live according to the principle “everything for the front, everything for victory.” Of course, the main objective for us is to spare no effort in delivering on the tasks you have assigned to us as part of the special military operation as quickly as possible.
(Leonid Pasechnik also reported on efforts to prepare the elections, to be held on Single Voting Day in September, and on setting up an elections headquarters and the territorial election commissions. He said that enabling all people in the Lugansk People’s Republic to cast their votes and ensuring safety during elections were the main objectives in this regard.)
I must tell you about construction and restoration efforts in the republic. First of all, I would like to express immense gratitude to you personally for the decision you made last year to enlist the support of Russian regions in restoring the republic and rebuilding the infrastructure and the local economy. This initiative has produced great results so far. Regions are offering very tangible and valuable help, so I would like to also thank the governors and representatives working on the ground and, of course, the construction workers who have made it happen.
All this work has been organised by the Government of our great country, including Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin and Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin. I want to say a huge thank you to them. The scale of the construction projects is enormous.
Since last spring and to date, hundreds of kilometres of roads and water pipelines have been restored in the republic. We are repairing underground communications, power lines, and the residential buildings in the metropolitan area of northern Donetsk, including Severodonetsk, Lisichansk, Rubezhnoye and Kremennaya. We are helping people, understanding their difficult situation and trying to provide them with at least bearable living conditions.
I want to emphasise, absolutely sincerely, that, surely, Donbass has not seen this amount of care and goodwill since Soviet times.
The republic is transforming in front of our eyes. People have noticed this and the changes are having a positive effect on the social wellbeing of local residents.
To summarise, I want to say that history must be teaching us another lesson because today, we are recovering, and our unity is making us stronger and wiser.
I am certain that there are no tasks that we could not accomplish together. I am certain that we will achieve all our goals. I want to assure you that the Lugansk People’s Republic has a team that can do its work well. We may lack some professionalism or knowledge of the nuances of Russian law, but our people are true patriots who are used to working hard. And we can fulfil all the tasks set by you, the Government and our local administration.
We will certainly overcome the challenges of history today and further ahead.
Vladimir Putin: Of course, all the goals you mentioned cannot be achieved before solving the main problem – ensuring security. Now, as you can see, the situation on the line of contact is stable. Moreover, I take an occasional look at what the other side is doing and I get the impression that they are sending their people into minefields, under our artillery strikes as if they were not their own – as if they were not their citizens at all. It is amazing. It is their business and their problem of course, and as for our problems, we certainly need to think about restoring the economy and the social sphere on a solid security foundation.
And actually… Yes, I do see that you are growing and restoring industry, but this is recovery, and we need to ensure that the economy recovers, that this goal is achieved, and then you can move on.
As to the social situation, economically, too, I would say the main problem is that people’s incomes remain modest, to put it mildly, while prices are rising.
There are very obvious issues such as the need to restore housing, public services, communications, engineering networks, utilities, and so on. But these are regular everyday issues, as they say, and I am sure that your team will be able to solve them.
Still, I know that in the days of old – I mean, until recently, you never used to work on purely economic and administrative issues. Your job was security, but things have changed of late, and you and your team are trying your best to address the problems facing the republic now and ensure that these problems are resolved. And I see that, on the whole, you are doing well.
You certainly need to keep in touch with the people directly, receive their feedback; we are trying to arrange this in every region across the country, but it is all the more important in your region because the situation is complicated enough and requires people to stay focused and ready for serious work. And I see from the past few months’ results, even the past 18 months, that your people are certainly talented.
Leonid Pasechnik: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: And I just know that not one of them is expecting any handouts, no one is going cap in hand – everyone is ready to work, and they want to work, and they know how to work. We will certainly do everything we can to promote this positive process and very positive attitude. We just need to support people.
The issues concerning Russian laws are important, but not a top priority. The region certainly needs to fully integrate into Russia’s legal system, but most importantly, you need to establish good cooperation with government agencies so that we can work together to integrate the Lugansk People's Republic into the projects that are funded from Russia, so that we will be able to achieve the same goals in the Lugansk Republic as in the country as a whole. And gradually, there is no doubt, we will solve many problems for the benefit of the people who live there.
As for the upcoming elections – I know it will not be easy to organise the voting in your situation, but with the support of the federal centre, I am sure you will do it, I have no doubts. But most importantly, in any election campaign it is essential to show the people that your entire team is ready to solve their problems and can do it, acting in the best interests of the people who live in the region. All the more so since, I have seen some statistics on people returning, that is, you have a positive migration inflow.
Therefore, I certainly wish you all the very best, and we will definitely help.
Leonid Pasechnik: Thank you very much, Mr President.
<… >
Geography
Lugansk People’s Republic
Topics
Regions
Persons
Pasechnik Leonid
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: August 23, 2023, 01:00
Text version