Events
Beginning of Russia-Tajikistan talks in restricted format
November 21, 2023
14:20
The Kremlin, Moscow
With President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon before talks in restricted format. Photo: Mikhail Metzel, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Rahmon, friends,
Good afternoon. We are delighted to see you all in Moscow.
This year we marked 30 years since the signing of our basic document, the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance. That treaty became effective in November 1993.
Our relations are developing progressively and have reached a very high level. Suffice it to say that Russia is the main trade and economic partner: Russia accounts for 23 percent, or more precisely, 22.9 percent, of Tajikistan’s trade and holds a leading place in terms of foreign direct investment, which is worth US$1.6 billion.
See also
Russian-Tajikistani talks
November 21, 2023
The intergovernmental commission is working very effectively. I believe that it will hold a regular meeting in Moscow next month. I would like to point out – I have already mentioned our mutual trade – that imports from Tajikistan, primarily the imports of agricultural products, have grown considerably, by 67 percent. It is a very good indicator.
Our cultural ties are developing dynamically, and I would like to say in this connection that on September 1, 2022, you and I took part [via videoconference] in the opening ceremony of five schools with Russian as a subject and as the language of instruction. This year and in the next few years, the Russian Government will allocate 200 million rubles a year to buy textbooks for these schools. I know that there is a shortage of them, but this decision will help.
There are also Tajik students and post-graduate students at our universities. Tajikistan has the largest quota in the CIS: 900 people. We will increase it to 1,000 for the 2024–2025 academic year.
President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
: Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: It is I who should thank you, knowing how much time you devote to the development of the Russian language and our relations in culture and the humanitarian area in general. We have many agreements: at one time, you initiated the creation of a centre for educating talented children in Tajikistan and establishing the Russian Drama Theatre named after Mayakovsky. The Government of the Russian Federation is allocating four and 3.5 billion rubles for these purposes, respectively. So, these plans will be carried out.
Of course, a component linked with ensuring security in the region is very important and we will certainly talk about it, primarily in the context of Afghanistan, especially on the eve of the CSTO meeting in Minsk. You are more sensitive to and clear about everything happening in this area. So, this part will be very important. We are also working thoroughly in other international associations. We are always in contact with each other and are coordinating our positions.
We are very happy to see you. Welcome again!
Emomali Rahmon: Mr Putin,
I am glad to meet with you again. Thank you for the warm reception. I am very pleased to be in Moscow. We have missed it.
We favour the continuation of our active interstate dialogue. Our trade and economic relations are on the rise. Our humanitarian cooperation is at the top level. Security issues occupy a special place in our bilateral agenda.
Today, I would like to discuss with you the status of and prospects for our interaction, as well as international and regional issues. I have already emphasised – and I believe we will continue this discussion during the talks – that there are many good things to do in the economy and other areas.
I would like to cordially thank you again for the invitation and a hospitable reception.
Vladimir Putin: Now we will talk here in the restricted format and later in the expanded format. In the evening, we will have an opportunity to talk face to face at an informal dinner. So we have a big programme ahead,
Emomali Rahmon: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
Tajikistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Rahmon Emomali
Publication status
Published in section: Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2023, 14:20
Text versionEvents
Extraordinary BRICS summit
Vladimir Putin took part in an extraordinary BRICS summit on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, held via videoconference.
November 21, 2023
17:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
3 of 4
Vladimir Putin took part in an extraordinary BRICS summit on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, being held via videoconference.
The extraordinary BRICS summit on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict (held via videoconference) was attended by President of Russia Vladimir Putin, President of the Federative Republic of Brazil Luiz Lula da Silva
, President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping
, President of the Republic of South Africa Cyril Ramaphosa
, and Minister of External Affairs of the Republic of India Subrahmanyam Jaishankar.
The states invited to join the association were represented at the summit by President of the Arab Republic of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
, President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Ebrahim Raisi
, Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud
, President of the United Arab Emirates Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
, Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia Abiy Ahmed, and Minister of Foreign Affairs, International Trade and Worship of the Argentine Republic Santiago Andres Cafiero.
* * *
Speech by the President of Russia
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Ramaphosa, colleagues, friends,
We think the initiative of the President of South Africa, as the current chair of BRICS
, to convene an extraordinary summit to discuss the escalation in the Gaza Strip, has come at the right time.
The thousands of deaths and mass expulsion of civilians, the humanitarian disaster unfolding in the area are causing deep concern. Just now, one of our colleagues spoke of the deaths of a large number of children. It is terrible, but when you watch children being operated on without anaesthesia, it certainly evokes intense feelings. And all of that is, in fact, happening as a consequence of the United States’ aspiration to monopolise the mediation role in the Palestinian-Israeli settlement process and block the activities of the Middle East Quartet of international mediators.
This is history’s way of demonstrating that attempts to single-handedly cut the “Palestinian knot” are unviable and counterproductive. Because of the sabotage of UN decisions, which clearly called for the establishment and peaceful coexistence of two independent and sovereign states – Israel and Palestine – more than one generation of Palestinians has grown up in an atmosphere of injustice, and Israelis cannot fully guarantee the security of their state either.
Russia's stance is consistent and independent of momentary conditions. We urge the international community to join efforts aimed at de-escalating the situation, negotiating a ceasefire and achieving a political solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. The BRICS states and the countries in the region could play a key role in this work.
For this reason, it is particularly significant that our colleagues from Middle Eastern countries, which received invitations to become full members of the BRICS this year, are joining our meeting today. I would like to take this opportunity to respectfully acknowledge their efforts to normalise the situation. In particular, I am referring to the Peace Summit hosted by Egypt and the joint Arab-Islamic extraordinary summit in Saudi Arabia.
It is worth noting that all BRICS countries have similar positions on the need to collectively reach long-term and durable settlement of the long-standing Palestinian-Israeli problem.
This was reflected during voting on the draft resolution on a humanitarian truce in the UN General Assembly and in discussing a UN Security Council resolution on the Middle East settlement process, which was adopted for the first time in the past seven years. Although this resolution contains merely an appeal for humanitarian pauses rather than a full ceasefire, we consider the very fact of its approval a step in the right direction.
I would like to emphasise that such humanitarian pauses and, better still, a full ceasefire are essential to continue the efforts to free hostages and evacuate civilians and foreigners from the Gaza Strip. I must express again my deep gratitude to President [of Egypt Abdel Fattah] el-Sisi, and all our Egyptian colleagues for their help in resolving many challenging issues linked with receiving and sending home the Russian citizens that had left the conflict area.
Of course, by all accounts, the most urgent goal is to reach a truly long-term and sustainable truce. I agree with my Brazilian colleague that it is important that other states not get drawn into a war in the Middle East and that the conflict not spread in any way, as is preserving the fragile peace between religions.
In this context, we consider it extremely useful to continue discussing subsequent developments in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict in BRICS. If there are no objections, colleagues, we will initiate possible contacts, including via videoconference, concerning these issues during Russia’s upcoming BRICS presidency next year.
In general, the new format of emergency online summit meetings suggested by President [of South Africa Cyril] Ramaphosa appears to be quite promising. Importantly, this applies not only to the Middle East settlement but to other urgent global and regional issues.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
BRICS
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2023, 17:40
Text versionEvents
Press statements following Russian-Tajikistani talks
Following the Russia-Tajikistan talks, Vladimir Putin and Emomali Rahmon made statements for the press.
November 21, 2023
16:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
4 of 5
Press statements following Russian-Tajikistani talks. With President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friends, ladies and gentlemen,
The official visit of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan to the Russian Federation is taking place in a friendly and business-like atmosphere, which is entirely in keeping with the character of the strategic partnership and allied relations between our countries.
This year, we marked the 30th anniversary of the signing of the fundamental Russia-Tajikistan Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance. I have spoken about this quite recently. I think it came into force on November 17, 1993. A great deal has been done to advance our relations over these years.
At today’s talks, we paid special attention to economic interaction. Russia is traditionally one of Tajikistan’s largest trade partners. Last year, trade went up by 18.3 percent to reach almost US$1.5 billion. I would like to emphasise the record 67 percent growth in food supplies coming from Tajikistan, including fresh vegetables and fruit.
Our country is one of the leading investors in Tajikistan’s economy. Over 300 companies with Russian capital are operating in Tajikistan.
National currencies are playing a growing role in transactions between our countries. The ruble’s share in commercial deals in the first six months of this year has reached an impressive 83 percent. We are consistently developing sustainable channels of interaction between our credit and banking institutions.
Since last year, Russian and Tajikistani citizens have been able to make cross-border money transfers via the Bank of Russia’s Faster Payment System.
The business community is playing an active role in developing bilateral relations. Established in 2022, the Business Council has vigorously joined these efforts.
During the discussion of energy cooperation, it was noted that Russia almost fully meets the Tajikistani economy’s demand for oil products. Importantly, energy sources are supplied without export customs duties. Gazprom Neft, the owner of five oil depots and 44 petroleum stations, is actively operating in Tajikistan.
Our country is also helping Tajikistan develop its electricity generation capacities. Thus, the Sangtuda Hydroelectric Power Plant built with Russia’s participation, generates over ten percent of electricity that Tajikistan consumes. The RusHydro Group is helping Tajikistan operate and upgrade the existing generating capacities. It intends to take part in designing and engineering new hydro energy stations.
We see good prospects in the mining industry. Russian companies are interested in cooperating with their Tajikistani partners in uranium prospecting and production, as well as rare and rare earth metals, including lithium.
Incidentally, Rosatom has recently completed a major project to rehabilitate a uranium processing industrial facility in Tajikistan and is ready to work with the country on other aspects of using uranium for civilian purposes, first and foremost, in medicine. We spoke about this during our talks today as well.
As you know, about a million, or probably a bit more Tajikistani citizens live and work in Russia. They are making a big contribution to the development of the Russian economy and hold the most diverse jobs. Importantly, by transferring money home, they are seriously helping their own economy.
I would like to emphasise that our agencies are trying to provide citizens of Tajikistan in Russia with decent working conditions and social protection. In addition, a representative office of the Moscow Multifunctional Migration Centre has been working in Dushanbe since last year. It facilitates interactions between migrant workers and employers in Moscow and its suburbs.
I would like to note that the President of Tajikistan is paying special attention to the promotion and support of the Russian language and culture in Tajikistan. Our countries cooperate in the humanitarian area, in culture and education. As I said, in Tajikistan, Russian has constitutional status as a language of interethnic communication, and Russia is striving to help create favourable conditions for studying it.
I will recall, in this context, that on September 1 last year, Mr Rahmon and I took part in the ceremony to open five schools with instruction in Russian in Dushanbe and other cities of Tajikistan. About 5,500 schoolchildren are already studying at these schools in the Russian academic programmes, and we are planning together to establish a centre for gifted children at one of these schools, in Dushanbe.
In addition, we are trying to meet the requirements of our Tajikistani partners for textbooks in Russian. We sent over 70 Russian teachers to work in Tajikistan this year under the project, “Russian teacher abroad.” During the current talks in the expanded format, the President of Tajikistan suggested training Russian language teachers in Tajikistan. Of course, this is a very good idea to expand the study of the Russian language on such a broad scale.
I would like to note that over 35,000 Tajikistani students are now studying at Russian universities, their branches in the republic, and at Russia-Tajikistan (Slavonic) University. This academic year, about 900 state grants have been allocated to meet the republic’s requirements. Next year, we will increase this quota – one of the biggest or probably the biggest for the CIS countries – to 1,000 places.
Discussing current regional and global issues, we talked about our interaction in the CIS, the CSTO, the SCO and the UN. Of course, we analysed the security issue in Central Asia, primarily in the context of Afghanistan. We agreed to continue deepening our defence, military-technical, counterterrorism and antidrug cooperation. In general, we will continue working to maintain peace and stability in Central Asia. We intend to continue actively using the potential of the 201st Russian military base in the republic.
I will meet the President informally this evening as well. We will have an opportunity to review today’s meetings. The President of Tajikistan has a busy agenda, including meetings with the Government of the Russian Federation.
Mr President, I would like to thank you for accepting our invitation and for coming to Moscow today with such a representative delegation. Thank you for your attention.
President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
: Ladies and gentlemen, friends,
I would like to begin by thanking President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin for the invitation to pay an official visit to the Russian Federation. We view the current visit as an important step on the path to further expanding our countries’ strategic partnership and allied relations. It is gratifying that Tajikistani-Russian cooperation today maintains stable dynamics. As President Putin said, we have had substantive talks both at the highest level and in the delegation format.
For my part, I would like to stress that the talks were held in a traditionally constructive and trusting atmosphere. We discussed key issues of bilateral interaction and current regional and international issues of mutual concern.
In the year of the 30th anniversary of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, we praised the current level of cooperation between our countries, spoke in favour of stepping up collaboration in trade and the economy and reached an agreement on boosting this area in the coming years.
Issues related to expanding investment cooperation have also been discussed. In this regard, we agreed to launch major investment projects in various sectors of the economy. To this end, Tajikistan has created a favourable investment climate, and there are also several free economic zones functioning.
Interstate cooperation with Russia in the field of financial information has reached a qualitatively new level. Mutual settlements in national currencies have increased to 82 percent.
The highlight of the talks was energy cooperation, as well as industrial cooperation with a focus on the metallurgical, mining, textile, food and pharmaceutical industries.
Given the huge hydropower resources available, our country is actively developing green energy. Tajikistan has 13,000 glaciers, which account for 60 percent of water resources in Central Asia. Our country ranks eighth in the world in total hydropower reserves, and second in per capita terms.
Today, Tajikistan generates 98 percent of its electricity at hydroelectric power plants, that is, from renewable green energy sources, and ranks sixth in the world. We intend to double the capacity to produce clean energy as an important foundation for promoting a green economy.
Tajikistan also has opportunities for deploying energy-intensive production capacity using green energy for minimal impact on the environment.
We are ready to develop constructive and mutually beneficial cooperation with Russia in these areas. About 800 mineral deposits and indications of possible mineral deposits have been discovered in Tajikistan. These include critical mineral and raw material resources that are in high demand today. We are inviting Russian companies to cooperate in developing them.
We discussed in detail the prospects for cooperation on developing oil-and-gas deposits. The possible joint reclamation of former uranium production sites in Tajikistan is viewed positively from both sides. Rosatom is Tajikistan's main partner in this respect.
We agreed that the agricultural sector was a promising area for cooperation. We emphasised our willingness to expand exports of eco-friendly agricultural products from Tajikistan to Russia.
We also noted the expansion of cooperation in tourism. We emphasised the growing interest of Russians wanting to travel to Tajikistan as tourists, and thus, the increase of their number.
During the talks, we were pleased to note the positive results in humanitarian cooperation, which is currently on the rise. In October 2022, Russia successfully hosted Days of Culture of Tajikistan, while Tajikistan cities held Days of Culture of Russia last summer. We discussed our plan to start building the Mayakovsky Russian Academic Theatre in Dushanbe as soon as possible.
We gave a positive assessment to our productive cooperation in education and healthcare. We noted the successful operation of five general education schools built by Russia in Tajikistan, which were officially launched last year.
We were pleased to note the start of the implementation of our joint project with the President of Russia on building an education centre for gifted children in Tajikistan.
We focused on the study of the Russian language, which has constitutional status as a language of interethnic communication in Tajikistan. I will also mention that Russian language study is mandatory at all levels of the education system, starting from kindergarten, in over 4,000 schools. Today, 2.5 million children are studying in the republic’s education system.
Considering the shortage of textbooks and teaching guides in Russian, as well as teachers trained to teach in Russian, we have expressed interest in continuing to work together in these areas. We supported efforts to expand the practice of sending Russian teachers to Tajikistan under the Russian Teachers Abroad project, which today comprises 72 teachers working in our country.
All of the above economic, cultural and educational issues will be thoroughly reviewed at the upcoming Intergovernmental Commission meeting in Moscow.
We attach great importance to promoting and strengthening interregional ties, with 80 federal and economic entities in Russia today cooperating with Tajikistan. We believe that further expansion of our interregional relations geography will help promote trade, as well as economic and other relations between our countries.
I am confident that it also facilitates efforts to strengthen friendship and mutual understanding between our peoples.
Interparliamentary cooperation is showing positive dynamics, and we are seeing the ties between the legislative bodies of our countries become more intensive.
I want to mention the importance of interaction between our countries in security matters.
I would like to express special gratitude to the law enforcement agencies and security services of the Russian Federation for the cohesive work and the coordination of interaction with the relevant agencies in Tajikistan.
Our countries are closely cooperating in countering terrorism, extremism, acts of radicalism, drug-trafficking, cybercrime and other forms of cross-border organised crime.
During our talks, we spoke in favour of stepping up our cooperation at the UN, the CIS, the SCO, the CSTO and other international and regional associations.
We also discussed regional and international matters. In the context of the situation in Palestine, Tajikistan regards the implementation of the UN resolutions on this issue as the only appropriate solution. The importance of creating an independent Palestinian state within the 1967 borders needs specific mention.
Having experienced the horrors of a civil war, our country is consistently advocating the use of solely political and diplomatic means to resolve all problems and conflicts.
I would like to emphasise that we are satisfied with the outcome of today’s dialogue. During the talks Tajikistan and Russia have reaffirmed their commitment to tap the existing potential in order to take our relationship to a qualitatively higher level.
Again, I want to sincerely thank President Putin and all our Russian friends for their hospitality and warm welcome.
I have invited the Russian President to pay an official visit to Tajikistan at any time convenient for him.
Thank you very much.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
See also
Russian-Tajikistani talks
November 21, 2023
Geography
Tajikistan
Topics
Foreign policy
Media
Persons
Rahmon Emomali
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2023, 16:00
Text versionEvents
Meeting with Federal Taxation Service Head Daniil Yegorov
Late last night, Vladimir Putin held a working meeting with Head of the Federal Taxation Service Daniil Yegorov. The FTS Head reported to the President on the agency's performance results for the current year.
November 21, 2023
10:00
Novo-Ogaryovo, Moscow Region
1 of 5
With Federal Taxation Service Head Daniil Yegorov.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Yegorov, what is the forecast? Around 46 trillion rubles?
Head of the Federal Taxation Service Daniil Yegorov
: Yes, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Will you be able to reach it?
Daniil Yegorov: We plan to, yes. We have every reason to believe so, because in the first ten months of the year, we received 37.6 trillion rubles, which is 3.6 trillion rubles more than last year.
Vladimir Putin: That is, if everything goes as planned, it will be approximately six percent more than in 2022?
See also
Greetings on Tax Authority Worker’s Day
November 21, 2023
Daniil Yegorov: I would even say nine percent.
Vladimir Putin: Nine percent?
Daniil Yegorov: Yes, nine percent more. Last year, it was 42 trillion rubles overall, and this year it will be 46 trillion rubles. So, four trillion rubles more.
Vladimir Putin: And the non-oil and gas revenues are also higher than last year? Structure-wise, I mean.
Daniil Yegorov: Mr President, they make up the largest share of revenues and will account for 3.2 trillion rubles in growth.
Income tax also looks quite good when it comes to non-oil and gas revenues and will increase by 20 percent. VAT will increase by 11 percent. Insurance payments increased by 29 percent. This includes payments for last year from individuals and companies that received deferment. Personal income tax has increased by 13 percent, which corresponds with the general growth of salaries in the country.
Vladimir Putin: Good.
You also wanted to tell me about automation of certain processes.
Daniil Yegorov: Yes, that’s right.
Vladimir Putin: Go on.
Daniil Yegorov: I want to note that the growth is seen against the backdrop of two processes.
I think it is important to mention that this year, we had half as many inspections as in 2022, when we conducted 8,000 inspections by this time. This year, we conducted only 4,000 inspections. This is the first thing.
Vladimir Putin: Half as many?
Daniil Yegorov: Yes.
At the same time, we ensure tax management with a reduced administrative burden.
Vladimir Putin: It is due to the automation?
Daniil Yegorov: Yes, automation overall, including due to risk analysis and automation of the control procedures that we use. This is as regards inspections.
Second, this year we have implemented one of the most serious taxation reforms with regard to payments. We have now created an entirely new payments system. One can say that the reform has succeeded. From now on, every taxpayer has only one tax account, and they do not have to distribute money throughout the national budget. They pay money into one account, and we automatically disburse and distribute the payments, together with the treasury.
(Daniil Yegorov went on to note that, following the reform, the share of unidentified payments (when people make mistakes, while filling out payment forms) has plunged 24-fold. The number of technical debtors among legal entities and self-employed entrepreneurs has dwindled from 1.9 million to 900,000, and technical-debt fines have been annulled).
In addition, we worked closely with governors, our colleagues, and created a new notification system. We have developed an entirely new data provision system from scratch for governors and federal agencies. The system lists over 215 parameters highlighting the state of any region’s economy. We also downloaded data on budget payments, so that our colleagues would see incoming assets, calculations and would be able to plan their budgets. It is now being done online every week, and people can see all their details.
Here is the final highly important aspect. From now on, all personal accounts (over 55 million, all told) offer completely transparent data on budgetary payments and settlements. Consequently, we automatically issue certificates for prospective bidders wishing to take part in tenders, etc. We have also teamed up with the developers of the accounting systems that are used by over 90 percent of taxpayers, and we have found an optimal solution for promptly feeding our data into the accounting systems. People can see their personal data, while using the accounting systems. We consider this to be one of the reform’s extremely serious innovations.
Vladimir Putin: This is much more convenient for everyone involved in this process and for the state, primarily for taxpayers, and this improves tax collection, too.
Daniil Yegorov: You are absolutely right. The system has now become much more transparent than the one that we used in previous years.
Vladimir Putin: Excellent.
<…>
Topics
Budget
Taxes
Persons
Yegorov Daniil
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2023, 10:00
Text versionEvents
Video address to the participants in the start of the 100-day countdown to the World Youth Festival
November 21, 2023
19:00
Video address to the participants in the start of the 100-day countdown to the World Youth Festival.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Friends,
The World Youth Festival will open in Russia on March 1, 2024 – in exactly 100 days. This momentous event will take place on the Sirius federal territory in Sochi. We will welcome people from the whole world there as our dear guests.
We have already received over 250,000 applications from 183 countries. This impressive number shows that there is no force stronger than friendship. It reflects a vast, sincere interest in Russia, our history, traditions, values and modern views on the future, which have united young people from the most diverse countries across the globe.
Naturally, all of them are interested in our national achievements that can surprise and inspire, as the Russia international exhibition and forum shows. The countdown clock will be launched there, at the exhibition’s venue. Starting today, it will count down the 100 days until the opening of the World Youth Festival.
Of course, we would like young people from all over the world to see Russia as it is – with its natural, cultural and ethnic diversity, and its main asset and wealth – talented, ambitious people. They are capable of resolving the most challenging tasks and conquering any summits for the benefit of their homeland.
We want our guests to see that Russia is really a land of opportunity and that young people have an enormous space in which to unlock their potential and let their dreams come true.
Young people, and they are the ones that will determine the future, respect personal freedom and the right to their own opinion. However, at the same time, they find it easier to understand each other because they consider important what unites rather than divides people. Russia adheres to the same principles of recognising the identity and national interests of different states.
I am confident that the festival will become an important step in creating a fair, multipolar world. It will unite young people in searching for the solutions that are needed by the modern world arrangement, and in creating firm foundations for cooperation, on which interstate relations can rest.
See you, friends, at the World Youth Festival on March 1, 2024.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2023, 19:00
Text versionEvents
Presenting the Order for Service to the Fatherland, III degree, to President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
Vladimir Putin presented a Russian Federation state decoration, the Order for Service to the Fatherland, III degree, to President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon.
November 21, 2023
15:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 2
Vladimir Putin presented a Russian Federation state decoration, the Order for Service to the Fatherland, III degree, to President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon.
The President of Russia signed Executive Order awarding Emomali Rahmon with the Order for Service to the Fatherland, III degree, for the great personal contribution to promoting relations of strategic partnership and alliance between the two countries, as well as for ensuring regional stability and security.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, friend,
Today you are being presented with a high Russian Federation state decoration: the Order for Service to the Fatherland, III degree. It is an acknowledgement of your great personal contribution to promoting friendship, strategic partnership and alliance between the Russian Federation and Tajikistan.
It is no exaggeration to say that the most significant achievements in bilateral relations – in politics, the economy, science, education and culture – are the direct result of your active position, interest, involvement and support of all these areas and projects.
Over the many years of our joint work, you and I have developed truly friendly, productive, trusting relations that help us find mutually beneficial solutions, jointly promote multifaceted cooperation between Russia and Tajikistan, and consistently build them on the principles of equality, mutual respect and consideration for each other’s interests.
I believe that you will continue to pay the necessary attention to the development of friendly ties between our countries and peoples. And I want to assure you, Mr President, that you can count on the same approach from the Russian side.
Once again, congratulations on this decoration. I wish you good health, further success in your state activities and all the best to you and the people of Tajikistan.
(The award ceremony.)
President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon
: Mr President,
Thank you for your decision to present me with the Order for Service to the Fatherland. I see this decoration as high appreciation of my modest contribution to strengthening bilateral relations. Above all, I consider it the merit of the entire people of Tajikistan in the steady development of relations of strategic partnership and alliance with fraternal Russia. We are committed to further close cooperation in comprehensively promoting the entire range of interaction between the two countries.
Thank you once again, Mr President, for your high assessment of and attention to my activities. Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Congratulations.
See also
Russian-Tajikistani talks
November 21, 2023
Geography
Tajikistan
Topics
Foreign policy
State decorations
Persons
Rahmon Emomali
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: November 21, 2023, 15:40
Text version