Events
Video address to participants in CIS Heads of Government Council meeting
December 18, 2023
11:20
Video address to participants in CIS Heads of Government Council meeting.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, friends,
I am delighted to greet all participants in the Commonwealth of Independent States Heads of Government Council meeting.
The current meeting is dedicated to a truly important issue, specifically, to expanding cooperation in the cultural and humanitarian sphere. It is precisely the close-knit cultural connectivity and spiritual proximity of our nations, the extensive human contacts and the centuries-long shared history of our life in a single state that constitute a solid foundation for building upon intra-CIS integration processes.
I believe you will agree that we have inherited a truly unique civilisational blend of traditions and customs, languages and literature, art and folk culture. It is our task to preserve this common multi-national asset to the greatest possible extent and to enrich it with new content.
It is therefore quite natural that, during Russia’s CIS chairmanship, due to commence from January 1, we are planning to continue to expand the practice of holding a wide range of joint events dealing with the most diverse aspects of art, education, and science. For this purpose, we will also utilise the resources of the CIS Interstate Humanitarian Cooperation Fund.
We will encourage the implementation of cinema and television projects and the organisation of classical and pop music competitions. I would like to recall that Russia has already submitted an entire range of corresponding initiatives, including the establishment of the Eurasian Academy of Film Arts and the Eurasian Film Award, and the reinstatement of the Intervision international song festival. We are counting on a positive response from our CIS partners.
Certainly, we aim to continue the closest possible interaction in the field of preserving the memory of our common past and combatting efforts to falsify history and glorify Nazism. The search movement has an important role to play in this work along with such landmark events in memory of the fallen in the Great Patriotic War as the Immortal Regiment, the St George Ribbon and the Memory Train, aimed at acquainting the citizens of our states, including the younger generation, with history and combat glory venues and battle sites.
Naturally, during its chairmanship, Russia will devote special attention to preserving the Russian language, our common asset. The Russian language has been facilitating inter-ethnic communications between hundreds of millions of people in our countries and all over the world, and it retains this status.
I recall that at the Bishkek summit on October 13, we signed the Treaty on the Establishment of an International Organisation for the Russian Language. This institution, which will be headquartered in Sochi, is intended to help ensure the protection and promotion of the Russian language as the key to mutual understanding and free communication both within the CIS and beyond. It is now important to resolve the practical issues of how the Organisation will function, to draft its founding documents, and prepare and hold the first ministerial conference.
Fitness and sport are an integral component of the notion of humanitarian cooperation. The Commonwealth is also doing a lot in this area: the CIS Games and other sports competitions are organised on a regular basis. In February, Kazan will host the innovative Games of the Future, combining classical and cyber sports, and in June, the BRICS Games. We expect athletes from the Commonwealth countries to take a most active part in them.
There is also an important event ahead, the World Youth Festival in Sochi in March 2024. This large-scale forum will bring together young people from all over the world, and representatives of more than 180 countries are expected to arrive.
Friends,
It is highly symbolic that your meeting is taking place at the VDNKh complex. I think you have already had a chance to visit the Russia International Exhibition and Forum.
This exhibition is of great interest, and it has already been visited by several million people – Moscow residents and numerous guests of the capital, who, by the way, also enjoy visiting the renovated national pavilions of the Commonwealth countries located at VDNKh. And in this way, visitors get an opportunity to learn about the traditions, culture, and modern life of the peoples in your countries. This helps us understand each other better, thus contributing to the further strengthening of the bonds of friendship between all CIS members.
In conclusion, I would like to extend my birthday greetings to the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, who is present at the meeting, and to wish him good health and happiness.
I would like to ask you to convey my warmest greetings to the leaders of your countries, whom I expect to see very soon, in late December at the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council and the traditional informal meeting of CIS leaders in St Petersburg.
And of course, I heartily greet you, colleagues and friends, on the occasion of the coming New Year. I wish you and your families and friends, citizens of your countries good health, happiness, well-being, peace, and prosperity.
Thank you for your attention.
Topics
CIS
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 18, 2023, 11:20
Text versionEvents
Meeting with winners and mentors of Professionals National Championship of Professional Excellence
Vladimir Putin met with the winners and mentors of the Professionals National Championship of Professional Excellence.
December 18, 2023
18:50
The Kremlin, Moscow
9 of 12
Meeting with winners and mentors of Professionals National Championship of Professional Excellence
The final of the championship took place in St Petersburg in late November. College students competed in 35 competences and schoolchildren aged 14 and over – in 20 competences, such as corporate protection against internal threats to information security, industrial automation, and unmanned aerial vehicle repairs, to name a few.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Good afternoon,
First, I would like to congratulate you and your families and friends on the coming New Year. We are unlikely to meet again before the New Year, so I would like to wish you all the best, to wish you success.
You have taken the first steps in your successful career in the best sense of the word. I would like to hope that everything continues to progress for you.
In addition – I do not know whether you have been told about this or not – if not, you will hear a piece of pleasant news; if you have, it’s okay to repeat it. Anyway – every winner and prize winner will receive a certificate for a tour of Russia under the More Than a Journey programme. So, you will be able to follow certain routes and visit Russia’s most interesting places. It might even be possible to link this travel with your future profession, but it will be interesting in any event.
What would I like to say about the competition you won and why it is so important? I am sure this has already been said many times, but I will repeat it. Do you know what people said about vocational professions in the past, in Soviet times that are pre-historical to you? “Grab more, throw farther.” This is all a worker was supposed to do, but not always, of course. There were high class professional in all times, it’s obvious.
But what is happening now? We are witnessing a technological revolution. Not here, or let’s say “not only here.” We have it, too. The whole world is being swept by a technological revolution. It requires fundamentally new, qualified personnel – call them what you want. You can call them vocational professions or anything you please. It is important that this is, of course, a completely different generation, completely different requirements and there should be a new generation of professionals.
There are many areas; you know this yourselves, and they are related to high technology. At first glance, it may seem like they have nothing to do with high-tech, but in reality they are related to it and require special knowledge. I will not list all of these areas at this point, you know them yourselves since you competed in these disciplines and won these categories.
This is why it is extremely important for us to make the process of training high class professionals tightly linked with the labour market and employers – those who are waiting for skilled professionals to come to their companies. This is true because large companies, especially in the high-tech sector, cannot develop without these professionals. Under the state’s new programmes, we are planning to train one million such professionals over the next three years.
Part of this is that demography comes in waves – we have more births, then fewer births and then more births again. This is also related to the Great Patriotic War years when we had a big gap – this is understandable. Later, in the early 1990s, it was related to the collapse of what used to be our common big homeland, the Soviet Union. The drop in births was the same as in 1943, during the Great Patriotic War. Meanwhile, in three years or so, we will see an increasing birth rate again. The number of professionals, young people entering the production process, who will reach the age of starting their careers will increase by about two million compared to now. Now we have seven million or so of them and we will have almost 10 million. And this also compels the state to create the necessary infrastructure for these people in a timely manner. The task of the state is to let them start their chosen vocations as they graduate, smoothly and naturally and to have everything prepared for this, for them to become real professionals.
I believe this will happen. At any rate, when we see how you cope with everything, we are very happy for all those who are taking part in these processes in one way or another. We are very happy for you, and I would like to sincerely wish you every success.
You are young people, but you have taken your first steps and they have proven to be successful for you. You will gain your own experience on this path. If you think we should add something or enhance our efforts in some areas, I will be glad to hear your proposals, and will certainly try to implement them with my colleagues.
<…>
Topics
Professional training
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: December 18, 2023, 18:50
Text version