Events
International Parliamentary Conference Russia – Africa in a Multipolar World
Vladimir Putin spoke at the International Parliamentary Conference Russia – Africa in a Multipolar World, held in Moscow under the auspices of the State Duma of the Russian Federal Assembly.
March 20, 2023
15:15
Moscow
3 of 5
At the International Parliamentary Conference Russia – Africa in a Multipolar World. Photo: Sergei Bobylev, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Dear friends,
I would like to sincerely welcome all the representatives of legislative bodies and leaders of political parties and public movements from African states in Moscow and at the international parliamentary conference.
Your conference is undoubtedly important in the context of the continued development of Russia’s multifaceted cooperation with the countries of the African continent. We also consider this event a key part of the preparations for the upcoming second Russia-Africa summit scheduled to be held in St Petersburg in July.
The first Russian-African summit held in October 2019 in Sochi was very productive and noticeably invigorated our ties with African states, gave a boost to business interaction and cultural and humanitarian exchanges. The partnership between Russia and African countries has gained additional momentum and is reaching a whole new level.
This conference brings together representatives of most countries on the continent. Given that it is legislators who are supposed to express the will of their voters in their countries and work in the interests of their people, your arrival shows that the peoples of Africa are interested in stepping up efforts to develop multifaceted and mutually beneficial relations with Russia.
I want to emphasise that our country has always and will always consider cooperation with African states a priority. It would not be an exaggeration to say that it is one of the unchanging priorities of Russia’s foreign policy.
Ever since the African peoples’ heroic struggle for independence, it has been common knowledge that the Soviet Union provided significant support to the peoples of Africa in their fight against colonialism, racism and apartheid, how it helped many African countries to gain and protect their sovereignty, and consistently supported them in building their statehood, strengthening defence capabilities, laying the foundations of their national economies and workforce training. The symbol of this cooperation was the construction by Soviet experts of the Aswan Dam, the largest in Africa. And today, the Russian Federation continues its policy of providing the continent with support and assistance.
The process of establishing the African Continental Free Trade Area, which began in 2021, opens up additional opportunities. In the future, this zone will become a continental market with a total GDP of more than three trillion dollars. We are in favour of actively developing ties with this new association both within the Eurasian Economic Union and bilaterally.
Large Russian investment projects are being implemented in Africa, involving such domestic companies as Rosneft, Gazpromneft, RusHydro, ALROSA, Lukoil and many others. We will continue to help African countries with electricity production, which so far covers only a quarter of the continent’s needs.
Today we are offering new environmentally friendly technologies, primarily in nuclear energy. Rosatom is already building a nuclear power plant in Egypt and plans to expand its involvement in the development of the national energy systems of the African continent. I would like to note that significant, in some countries 100-percent funding is provided by Russia. These are serious projects worth 15, 20 or 25 billion dollars.
Russian-African cooperation in the field of high technologies is also being strengthened. For example, Russia is helping to create the ANGOSAT satellite communication and television broadcasting system in Angola. Yandex is actively introducing information services to organise the transportation of passengers by taxi and other modes of transport in African countries. At the same time, Russia is always ready to share its technologies with African countries; it offers precisely joint, diverse technological development.
I would like to stress that Russia is reliably fulfilling all its obligations pertaining to the supply of food, fertilisers, fuel and other products that are critically important to the countries of Africa, helping to ensure their food and energy security. You probably know that we are ready to supply some of the resources we have frozen in European countries to countries in need free of charge, including fertilisers; and the first batches have already been sent. But unfortunately, there are obstacles here as well.
Russia, guided by the needs of African countries, first and foremost, has recently agreed to extend the agreement concluded in Istanbul on the export of Ukrainian food through the Black Sea and the unblocking of Russian agricultural exports and fertiliser supplies for another 60 days.
At the same time, we insist on the package nature of this deal – above all, in the interests of African and other developing countries, considering that they need large amounts of food – we insist on full compliance with Russia’s key requirements, first of all, as I said, making sure that grain and fertilisers go to the African countries in need, and not to satiated European markets and countries. Meanwhile, about 45 percent of the total volume of grain exported from Ukraine went to European countries, and only three percent went to Africa. Now, perhaps I will say two more words about this.
Let me stress that only if our position is taken into account will the fair and comprehensive implementation of the Black Sea grain deal be ensured, and depending on this, we will decide on our further participation in it. For reference, I can give you the following information. From August 1, 2022, to March 20, 2023, 827 ships left Ukraine, of which only three million tonnes of grain were sent to Africa and 1.3 million to the poorest countries in Africa. As I said, almost 45 percent went to well-fed European countries, despite the fact that this whole deal was presented under the pretext of ensuring the interests of African countries.
By the way, let me note that at the same time, despite all the restrictions and limitations on the export of Russian grain, almost 12 million tonnes were sent from Russia to Africa.
I would also like to add that if we decide not to extend this deal after 60 days, Russia will be ready to supply the same amount that was delivered under the deal, from Russia to the African countries in great need, at no expense. (Applause.)
Cooperation between Russia and African countries in education is at a traditionally high level. Today about 27,000 African students are studying in Russia, including 5,000 whose education is covered by the federal budget. At the same time, the annual quota for state-funded scholarships at Russian universities will be more than doubled. The project of the Russian-African Network University has entered its practical stage.
We intend to step up cooperation on such important topics for Africa as medicine and healthcare, as well as ensuring biological and epidemiological safety. In order to do this, Russia is ready to transfer fully equipped mobile labs and modern medicines to Africans, and to train specialists.
During the coronavirus pandemic, Russia was among the first countries to provide African states with large volumes of vaccines, test kits, personal protective equipment, and other medical and humanitarian cargoes.
And, of course, Russia always lends a helping hand to African countries in relieving the devastating consequences of natural disasters: floods, fires, hurricanes and droughts. Cooperation in the fight against terrorism and extremism has seen significant progress in recent years.
Military and defence industry cooperation continues, including the supply of Russian weapons and military equipment to African partners, and the training of relevant personnel. Currently, military personnel from over 20 African countries are studying at the institutes of the Russian Ministry of Defence.
Friends,
We are hard at work preparing for the second Russian-African summit and, of course, we will be glad to see leaders of all African countries, as well as heads of regional organisations, at this forum.
A busy and substantive agenda is being prepared for the summit and the economic and humanitarian forums held together with it. In total, there are plans to hold more than a hundred most diverse events ahead of and during the summit.
In conclusion, I would like to recall the words of an outstanding African statesman and fighter for the independence and rights of the peoples of Africa, Nelson Mandela, which still sound so relevant today: nothing should divert us from the road to freedom, and we should not allow anyone to stand in our way. I believe that by joining our efforts and helping each other, we can do so much for the prosperity and well-being of the peoples of Africa and Russia.
Thank you very much for being here in Moscow with us today. Thank you. Good luck to you. All the best.
Topics
Foreign policy
Parties
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 20, 2023, 15:15
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping
Vladimir Putin met with President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping, who arrived in Russia on a state visit.
March 20, 2023
21:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 6
With President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping. Photo: Sergei Karpukhin, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, dear friend, welcome to Russia, to Moscow.
I am glad to have a chance to congratulate you in person on your re-election as President of China. This was possible because the Chinese nation and its representatives rightfully appreciate your work over the past decades.
In recent years, China has made a colossal leap forward in its development. It has been the object of sincere interest around the entire world, and we are even a bit envious of you.
See also
Russian-Chinese talks
March 21, 2023
China has created quite an effective system to develop the economy and strengthen the state. It is much more effective than what many other countries have, which is an undeniable fact. Market mechanisms go hand in hand with a quite confident policy programme and yield tangible results.
I am sure that, under your leadership, China will continue to make strides in its development in the years ahead and will, without a doubt, fulfill its goals.
It is symbolic that exactly ten years ago, we also met here, and it was your first visit to Russia as the President of the People's Republic of China. Since then, we have made great strides in developing our relations. Our trade has more than doubled, from just over $87 billion, I believe, to almost $200, $185 billion to be exact. We share numerous goals and objectives.
You personally and all of our Chinese friends devote much attention to Russian-Chinese relations, taking a fair and balanced stance on the majority of topical international issues. We have carefully studied your proposals on resolving the acute Ukraine crisis and we will have an opportunity to discuss this matter. We know that you are guided by the principles of justice and respect for the fundamental provisions of international law and indivisible security for all countries. You are aware as well that we remain open to negotiations. We will, of course, discuss these issues, including your initiatives, which we certainly respect.
Overall, our interaction in the international arena is promoting the fundamental principles of international order and multipolarity. There are lots of economic cooperation issues. Tomorrow, we will discuss this with the participation of our partners and colleagues. I am pleased that you thought fit and took the time to come here in the evening in order to discuss all issues of interest in an informal and friendly atmosphere.
Welcome.
President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping
(retranslated): Mr President, I always call you my dear friend.
I am very pleased to once again pay a state visit to Russia at your invitation, especially so shortly after my most recent re-election as President of the PRC, and I chose Russia for my first foreign visit.
You just mentioned that exactly 10 years ago, when I first became President of the People's Republic of China, I also chose Russia for my first foreign visit. You reminded me of that, and to this day these pictures are well preserved in my heart.
The Chinese side pays a great deal of attention to promoting Cino-Russian relations, because this has its own historical logic and we are two major neighbouring countries. We are partners in comprehensive strategic interaction and cooperation, and this status determines the close relations between our countries.
Immediately after the successful conclusion of the 20th Congress of the CPC, following the recent session of the Chinese Parliament, and after my successful re-election as Secretary General of the CPC and President of the People's Republic of China, you immediately sent me messages of greeting. Once again, I express my deep gratitude to you.
I am aware that a presidential election will take place in your country next year. Thanks to your strong leadership, Russia has made significant progress in recent years in achieving results and expanding prosperity. I am sure that the Russian people will strongly support you in your good works.
Indeed, our countries share many overlapping or similar goals as we move forward.
Both our countries are making great efforts to achieve our goal of development and prosperity. For example, we set the goal of upgrading the Chinese model. Russia has also set ambitious goals for developing the country. I am confident that our cooperation and close interaction will definitely help us reach these goals.
I am also very grateful to you for the fact that over the past years, regarding the development and construction of China, you have always had a positive attitude towards us and supported us. Of course, we feel this, and we are grateful to you.
As we continue to promote Cino-Russian international strategic cooperation, we must achieve the goal of ensuring justice and equality in the world while also achieving further development and prosperity in our countries in the process.
I am very grateful to you for your very good initiatives and the fact that today we will have a friendly one-on-one dinner, so that while we talk, we can exchange views on bilateral issues, as well as all issues of mutual interest.
Thank you.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
<…>
Geography
People's Republic of China
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
Xi Jinping
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 20, 2023, 21:00
Text versionEvents
Expanded Interior Ministry Board meeting
The President took part in an annual expanded meeting of the Russian Interior Ministry Board. Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev also delivered a report at the meeting.
March 20, 2023
14:40
Moscow
7 of 7
At the extended meeting of Russian Interior Ministry Board. With Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev. Photo: Stanislav Krasilnikov, RIA Novosti
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Kolokoltsev, comrades,
Today, at the expanded Interior Ministry Board meeting, we will asses the results of your 2022 performance and discuss the high-priority spheres on which we need to focus in order to strengthen law and order and more effectively fight crime and other threats to the security and stability of our state.
Statistics show that it was possible to improve a number of important parameters throughout 2022. For example, more crimes are now solved than before. We have repeatedly discussed this issue, and it is important that a certain nascent positive trend has emerged here.
Regarding other positive changes, I would like to mention more active work to facilitate road safety, and law and order on the streets, in public areas and in the transport sector. Interior Ministry officials consistently thwarted attempts by various radicals to destabilise the socio-political situation.
Interior Ministry officers acted bravely and boldly during the special military operation. For example, they helped evacuate civilians from the war zone in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions.
Today, it is important that we make consistent progress, and that we combat crime more resolutely and firmly. Certainly, Interior Ministry officials must always be prepared, and they must be able to respond quickly and efficiently in emergencies.
Comrades, I would like to draw your attention to the following priorities for your future work.
First of all, it is necessary to quickly establish the Interior Ministry’s law enforcement divisions in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions. As I said at a recent meeting of the Prosecutor-General’s Office Board, it is also imperative to involve local officials, people who have proved their integrity, reliability and professionalism.
I am also asking you to fully provide the new units with modern special-purpose equipment, information networks and communications systems.
I would like to note that every person living in these regions must feel protected by law and must be assured that Interior Ministry officers will deliver timely assistance. I am asking you to organise this work in such a way that all issues that are of concern to people are resolved as soon as possible.
The fight against crime remains a highly important task. This work must become more effective with every passing year, and it is necessary to achieve more impressive results.
As before, it is necessary to focus on preventing juvenile delinquency. A comprehensive and systemic approach is also highly important here. Consequently, I have instructed the Government and the Presidential Executive Office to draft a comprehensive programme to prevent negative social developments among young people.
Last year, the number of extremist crimes increased; I also spoke about this in sufficient detail at recent meetings of the FSB and the Prosecutor General’s Office boards.
The unity and cohesion of our multiethnic society has always been and remains the strength of Russia, helping it overcome any difficulties and any trials; therefore, provocations, illegal street protests or other attempts to shake up society must be promptly suppressed, just like the spread of extremist ideology. Representatives of religious confessions, youth and other public organisations should be more actively involved in this work.
Colleagues,
Under sanctions pressure, and most importantly, considering the major development tasks facing Russia, the regions, and all industries that we are currently addressing, areas of work such as ensuring economic security and fighting corruption are of critical importance.
Today Russian businesses operate in complicated conditions. However, they handle serious challenges honourably and ensure the development of the Russian economy.
In my recent Address to the Federal Assembly, I gave instructions to continue system-wide work to decriminalise an entire range of economic crimes. In this regard, it is up to you and parliamentarians, the Government, and the business community to continue improving the law, to eliminate vague, ambiguous language in legal norms, and to ensure more precise legal regulation of economic life in Russia.
Law enforcement practice is also of great importance. Please check whether it is justified to open criminal cases against entrepreneurs. It is often obvious from the beginning that the case has no judicial prospects. Then opening a case is not even necessary as it simply destabilises the work of entire teams and companies. It is absolutely unacceptable.
It is also necessary to ensure that the investigation does not disrupt the work of companies, or cause teams to collapse. Of course, the law must be respected. But you understand what I am talking about. The economy is an extremely important area of activity in general, and today in particular.
I have said many times that criminal procedural measures of restraint that do not involve the actual restriction of freedom should be applied to suspects or those accused of committing economic crimes whenever possible. I am talking about written undertaking not to leave the country, bail or house arrest.
Of course, at the same time we must keep an eye on economic activities and firmly prevent violations, the use of illegal shadow schemes and, of course, the theft of budget funds, primarily those allocated today for the implementation of the state defence order, national projects, demographic measures, import substitution programmes, and business support.
I would like to take a moment to discuss migration, a sensitive topic. The issue is complicated, with many different angles, and it affects all spheres of life: security, demographics, the economy, culture, and social and regional policy; so the approach must also be comprehensive and up-to-date.
What needs to be done? First of all, we need to promptly fine-tune all administrative procedures related to migration, digitise them as much as possible, and make them understandable, clear and accessible. I mean procedures for obtaining citizenship, a residence permit, work permit and other documents.
We need to work closely with our colleagues and experts in the Government and its relevant departments, who have good experience in creating modern, friendly and understandable public services. In turn, I am asking the Government leadership to provide methodological support and overall coordination of work here.
Of course, greater transparency of administrative procedures will make it possible to ensure more effective control over the migration situation in Russia, which is of fundamental importance for national security.
Let me repeat: it is important to consider the migration issue from all angles, considering the long-term interests and goals of Russia’s development; assess which specialists are especially in demand, in which regions and industries, what qualifications they should have, what are the requirements for their education and general cultural level. There are many factors here, and they must, of course, all be taken into account. Today, we have also talked with the Minister of the Interior in the morning. Of course, we need to look at the level of their wages.
Therefore, I am asking my colleagues in the Government, the Security Council, the State Council, the Ministry of Interior and other law enforcement agencies to jointly submit comprehensive proposals to continue improving migration policy, and to work on these issues with the regions and report on the proposed solutions by July 1. Let me emphasise that it is very important that the Government, its socioeconomic wing and law enforcement agencies have common approaches to the problem and a common understanding of the results that must be achieved in their work.
We all know well that migration is connected in a significant way to economic categories, too. The Government either transferred it to the economic wing, or to the Ministry of the Interior… It is important that both the law enforcement component and the economic component fit together, and in order to do this it is, of course, necessary to establish interaction and understand the tasks in this area.
Next, a current objective is to improve road traffic safety. I want to note that over the past ten years, the traffic-related death rate has been nearly cut in half, and, naturally, this is a good result. It is necessary to maintain these positive trends and continue to implement the Road Safety federal project. Special attention should be paid to the technological infrastructure of roads, improving road safety habits, and preventing traffic fatalities and injuries among children.
Colleagues,
One of the unconditional priorities of our work is combatting cybercrime. In 2022, the number of such crimes exceeded 500,000 and accounted for one fourth of all criminal offences. It is a striking figure, but it is obviously due to the development of computer technologies.
Yes, new forms of protection from malefactors operating at a distance are currently being introduced, criminal schemes in the information space are regularly exposed. At the same time, it is important to constantly inform citizens about new kinds of cybercrime and teach them how to protect themselves and improve people’s digital literacy overall as well.
Combatting drug trafficking remains the key objective of public safety authorities, and the police handle most drug-related crimes.
It is important to continue taking systemic, aggressive action, not only going after the tip of the iceberg – big and small dealers of this poison – but first of all, to destroy the financial and other infrastructure, identify major organisers, those behind the illegal drug business, shut down cross-border supply channels and underground labs, and look in general for more efficient ways and technical solutions to combat the drug threat, improve coordination on this issue with relevant agencies – the Federal Security Service, the Federal Customs Service, the Federal Penitentiary Service, and the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring – and strengthen international cooperation in this sphere.
In conclusion, I want to thank the leaders and all employees of the Interior Ministry for their dedicated work. In this difficult time, they need to be focused and efficient. Overall, to reiterate, the results are good.
I wish you success. Thank you very much.
<…>
Vladimir Putin: I will say a few words in conclusion of this part.
What would I like to note? Preserving the unity of our society, which I spoke about in my opening remarks, is always important, but this task is of particular importance at present. Do you know how to address it, first and foremost? By increasing the level of your professionalism. In no way should arrogance, unprofessionalism, or any kind of injustice be allowed when working with people. This is the most important thing, to begin with. This is the first part.
And the second, of course, is that it is necessary to strictly prevent any attempts by the adversary and their agents to shake up our society in Russia. This activity is a key area of the enemy’s work against Russia. This is obvious. It is clear from the nature of their actions, as well as operational sources. We read these documents, where they set such goals: to destabilise society from the inside.
In this context, the Ministry of the Interior is, of course, facing very serious challenges. But you need to start with yourselves, above all. This is what I was talking about: in no case can you allow any injustices, inaccuracies, or violations of people’s legal rights. This is the first thing I wanted to say.
Now the next issue. You know that the collective West has made systematic efforts to destroy our economy. Nothing worked, and nothing will. But we must not be complacent. We can see that everything that is being done against us was done in hopes of, first of all, a quick result. But those who work against us are also counting on the medium term as well. And here there are certain problems related to the supply of components in high-tech industries, with the cut-off from cooperation, with logistics chains. All this is happening, we can see it. I do not think they can do anything here either.
However, our businesses and the economy are facing many challenges in this regard, including on import substitution, but in a broader sense of this word. We are working on it every day. What we could buy yesterday must now be produced. There are disadvantages here, but also enormous advantages for the economy. Our enterprises, those that organise production, now have to place orders inside Russia. As a result, unemployment, among other things, has reached a historically low level of 3.6 percent.
Here is what I would like to bring to your attention. In no case should you be overly aggressive in your work. It is important to turn around your approaches to the economy and business. Instead, you should be helping people to avoid missteps and offences. Should a violation occur, you should help people find a way out of the situation they are in. I am, of course, talking primarily about honest economic actors.
Finally, one more consideration concerning the new constituent entities. Novorossiya and Donbass are facing different challenges. There are common ones as well, such as forming government bodies, including the Interior Ministry.
With regard to Donbass, for eight years its residents lived in extremely difficult conditions under shelling, and their only goal was to survive. Forming fully operational bodies of government or law enforcement agencies was a challenge, an almost impossible thing to accomplish in some areas. But local residents who are now citizens of the Russian Federation expect everything to be brought back to normal in the regular course of business, and their rights and interests to be protected in an effective, all-encompassing and highly professional manner. This must be done in the usual course of business relying, without doubt, on local personnel. But this work must be brought in line with the applicable legal regulations of the Russian Federation.
Well, some other things that the Minister and I discussed this morning and on our way to this meeting, official business such as issuing passports…Mr Kolokoltsev, I understand there might be difficulties, but I am sure that the Ministry is capable of overcoming them. Please bring things up to standard and do so without delay.
People want to be citizens of our country and want to get their passports. First, the process takes months and people have to spend inordinate amounts of time waiting in line. Who is in charge of this? These people should act responsibly in dealing with this issue. If they do not know how to do it, they need to be taught. If they do not want to, they should be promoted or transferred elsewhere. Get it right. Seriously.
Overall, much has been accomplished by the Ministry over the past year. Thank you very much. All the best.
Topics
Fight against crime
Law enforcement agencies
Persons
Kolokoltsev Vladimir
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: March 20, 2023, 14:40
Text version