Events
Meeting with New Development Bank President Dilma Rousseff
Vladimir Putin met with Dilma Rousseff, President of the New Development Bank, established by the BRICS states, at the Constantine Palace.
July 26, 2023
18:30
St Petersburg
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Ms Rousseff, I am very glad to see you. I remember our contacts during your tenure as President of Brazil.
I would like to congratulate you on your appointment to the position as the head of BRICS’ New Development Bank. I would like to note that in 2014 you and I were among those who initiated setting up this financial structure.
I am confident that, drawing on your vast experience in government work and knowledge in this area, you will make every effort to develop this institution – which I think is essential today. In the current conditions, it is not easy to do so, given the developments in global finance and the use of the dollar as a political weapon.
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
The members of our organisation, BRICS, do not ally against anyone, but rather work in each other’s best interests. This applies to the financial sector as well. Obviously, we have issues that I will propose for discussion. I will not go into details now; our colleague from the Ministry of Finance will say a few words.
Overall, we are members in good standing of this organisation; we promptly fulfill all our obligations. We know there is a question regarding bank liquidity; there are a few ideas coming from you and your staff, and we will support them.
Our countries in BRICS are increasing the use of national currencies in their mutual settlements. In this regard, I believe the bank can also play a significant role in boosting our joint activities.
Welcome, Ms Rousseff. I am very glad it was possible for you to visit us and discuss all these issues.
Muito obrigado!
President of the New Development Bank Dilma Rousseff
(retranslated): I’d like to say that I am very happy to be here again and meet with you. Walking in the halls of this palace, I remembered that I had already been here for the G20 summit. If I am correct, it was held in this palace in St Petersburg in 2013. I am very happy to see you again, and we really stood at the origins of creating the New Development Bank at the summit in Fortaleza in 2014.
Now the world is indeed going through many challenges. There are crisis trends and inflation in the advanced countries, and in the developing world, nations are facing debt problems. Of course, the countries in the developing world are now primarily in serious condition.
Obviously, the Russia-Africa summit is vital for those interested in the development of the Global South. Russia is a very important partner in BRICS and the New Development Bank, and is really fulfilling all of its commitments. And, indeed, the bank is facing a number of problems, primarily concerning liquidity.
The bank should play a major role in the development of a multipolar, polycentric world. We must work to attract investment in the markets of our partners. I also believe that the countries of the developing world can freely make their foreign trade transactions between themselves in their national currencies.
Our development strategy for the 2022–2026 period aims to draw about 30 percent of our funds from domestic markets. It is also very important to attract funds in different currencies, not just dollars or euros.
We are well aware of the difficulties encountered by the developing nations in their bid to attract investment. They need resources to finance infrastructure projects, develop digital and social logistics, and, of course, to reach their goals in environmental protection.
I would also like to welcome the initiative of holding the Russia-Africa summit because we all know that these countries are often short of the necessary resources. Everyone is focused on their debt, ignoring their need for resources. It seems unacceptable to impose certain terms and requirements on them in exchange for funding like multilateral international organisations are doing now.
I would like to finish my welcome speech by saying that the next BRICS summit will be a very important event, in part, for the New Development Bank. One of our priorities is to expand this institution by accepting developing nations in it.
Vladimir Putin: We will be working on this. Thank you.
<…>
Topics
Banks
BRICS
Economy and finance
Foreign policy
Persons
Rousseff Dilma
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 26, 2023, 18:30
Text versionEvents
Meeting with President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
Vladimir Putin met with President of the Arab Republic of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi at the Constantine Palace on the sidelines of the second Russia-Africa Summit.
July 26, 2023
20:45
St Petersburg
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr President, I am delighted to welcome you to Russia and to St Petersburg. Thank you for accepting our invitation to come to Russia for the second Russia-Africa Summit.
I would like to remind you that in 2019 you chaired the African Union and were actually the founding father of that format. Today you are supervising a project for Africa’s economic development. I have no doubt that there are issues we can discuss in this sphere as well.
In a month we will mark the 80th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. Over that period, over those decades, relations between Russia and Egypt have acquired a special meaning and status. Mr President, a great deal has been done towards this end under your guidance.
Additional
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
We have large and ambitious projects, including in energy. I am referring to the well-known nuclear power plant project. Our plans are proceeding according to schedule. Last year, our trade increased by 28.8 percent, according to our statistics. Over the first five months of this year, it went up by another 7 percent year on year. Egypt accounts for one third of Russia’s trade with Africa.
This year, we are holding events as part of the Year of Cultural Cooperation between Russia and Egypt, which will certainly further increase rapprochement between our nations.
Mr President, I am delighted to see you. Welcome to Russia.
President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi
(retranslated): Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for the successful organisation of the upcoming event and for the invitation you have kindly sent to me. Thank you for a warm welcome and for your hospitality.
We have a positive attitude to all initiatives and invitations, including from you, when they concern multilateral cooperation and interaction in Africa.
Of course, we also pay attention to bilateral cooperation. It goes without saying that we intend to advance it as far as possible. Mr President, as you have pointed out, the El Dabaa Nuclear Power Plant is a project that is fundamental to our cooperation, and we will carry it through. Another element is the establishment of the Russian Industrial Zone. There are also other endeavours and projects which we will be able to discuss in detail today.
Mr President, I would like to mention the special nature of relations between our countries. I am confident that substantial results will be achieved at the Russia-Africa Summit.
I was honoured to chair the previous Russia-Africa Summit held in 2019. Once again, thank you for a warm welcome today.
I am delighted to see you.
<…>
See also
Russia-Africa Summit
October 24, 2019
Geography
Egypt
Topics
Foreign policy
Persons
el-Sisi Abdel Fattah
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 26, 2023, 20:45
Text versionEvents
Russia-Ethiopia talks
Vladimir Putin held talks with Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia Abiy Ahmed at the Constantine Palace.
July 26, 2023
17:00
St Petersburg
8 of 12
With Prime Minister of Ethiopia Abiy Ahmed ahead of Russia-Ethiopia talks. Photo: Alexei Danichev, RIA Novosti
Beginning of Russia-Ethiopia talks
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, friends.
I am delighted to welcome you in St Petersburg. I would like to begin by saying that we highly value the long-standing friendly ties between Russia and Ethiopia based as they are on the principles of mutual respect and taking into consideration each other’s interests.
As Mr Prime Minister and I just recalled, for Russia, Ethiopia was the first country on the African continent with which Russia established diplomatic relations. This happened 125 years ago. We marked this anniversary recently.
See also
All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade
Today’s meeting offers the opportunity to have a detailed discussion on the current issues on the bilateral and international agendas. At the outset, I would like to thank you, Mr Prime Minister and your team, for accepting our proposal and deciding to come here to attend the Second Russia-Africa Summit.
Despite the slight decrease in Russia-Ethiopia trade (the absolute numbers are relatively small), the general dynamic is good. Today we are seeing 56-percent growth. As you know, in June, we opened our trade mission in Addis Ababa. Hopefully, it will facilitate the development of our trade and economic links. Mr Prime Minister, in time for your visit, we drafted an entire package of documents, including intergovernmental agreements on information security and air travel; a memorandum of understanding concerning information and communication technologies; a nuclear energy cooperation road map and a protocol of cooperation betweencustoms services. We are working together on more than 15 other intergovernmental agreements and inter-agency projects.
We continue to train professionals for our friends in Ethiopia. More than 20,000 Ethiopian citizens have completed study programmes in Russia in the past years. At the request of our Ethiopian friends, we increased the quota of your students sponsored by the Russian federal budget more than three times for the 2023–2024 academic year.
We maintain a regular political dialogue, with close interaction between our foreign ministers. Russia and Ethiopia share similar positions on many topical issues of the global agenda.
I want to say welcome once again, friends, and express hope that today’s meeting and your participation in the Russia–Africa Summit will be productive and beneficial for the development of our relations.
Thank you.
Abiy Ahmed: Mr President,
At the outset, I would like to say I appreciate the warm welcome extended to me and my delegation since our arrival in this beautiful city. This is my first time in this city, but I found it very beautiful. Culturally, I know how Russia was close to my country in terms of culture, in terms of diplomacy, as you mentioned. We have a very long history. We have been passing through lots of ups and downs together. This visit, in my opinion, will strengthen our relationship. We are going to discuss both bilateral and international issues as well. We will discuss technology, cybersecurity, economic exchange, trade. I hope this would be a very fruitful discussion. We are very happy, we are very glad to be here, to join our fellow African leaders for the summit. Besides that, we also have the deepest interest to discuss with you, as a friend, as a brotherly country, both our bilateral issues and regional issues.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
My colleague [the Prime Minister] and I agreed to hold this expanded meeting at a good business pace so we have more time to spend face to face.
<…>
Geography
Ethiopia
Topics
Foreign policy
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: July 26, 2023, 17:00
Text version