Events
Meeting with Government members
Vladimir Putin held a videoconference meeting with Government members.
June 21, 2023
16:40
The Kremlin, Moscow
2 of 4
Participants in the meeting with Government members (via videoconference).
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin
, Chief of Staff of the Presidential Executive Office Anton Vaino
, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov
, Deputy Prime Minister – Chief of the Government Staff Dmitry Grigorenko
, Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov
, Deputy Prime Minister – Presidential Plenipotentiary Representative to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev
, deputy prime ministers Viktoria Abramchenko
, Tatyana Golikova
, Alexander Novak
, Alexei Overchuk, Marat Khusnullin
and Dmitry Chernyshenko
, Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin
, Minister of Economic Development Maxim Reshetnikov
and Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
. Presidential Aide – Head of the Presidential Control Directorate Dmitry Shalkov
, Minister for Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief Alexander Kurenkov
, Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Alexander Kozlov
, Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
and Director General of State Atomic Energy Corporation Rosatom Alexei Likhachev
were also invited to attend the meeting.
* * *
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues, good afternoon.
Our agenda today will be focused on ensuring Russia’s resource independence when it comes to priority types of minerals for various industries. We have many reports; we will hear from Ms Abramchenko, Mr Kozlov, Mr Manturov, and Mr Likhachev, but I would like to start by asking the Emergencies Minister to report on the effort to help the people affected by the collapse of the Kakhovskaya hydroelectric dam.
Mr Kurenkov, please.
Minister for Civil Defence, Emergencies and Natural Disaster Relief Alexander Kurenkov
: Mr President,
As many as 23 communities in the Kherson Region were flooded following the collapse of the dam at the Kakhovskaya HPP. More than 23,000 residential buildings and 152 socially significant administrative and infrastructure facilities ended up in the flood area. The Nizhnedneprovsky National Park and 12 cemeteries have been flooded as well.
The Government Commission on Emergencies classified the current crisis as a federal-level emergency; this warranted a federal-level response. A response force has been sent to the disaster zone which includes Emergencies Ministry rescue teams, Defence Ministry service personnel, specialists from federal agencies and authorities of the Kherson Region.
As of today, the combined force of the unified state system for emergency prevention and response includes more than 1,500 people and 350 pieces of equipment, including 91 specialists in decontamination of chemical and biological agents who are treating and sanitising socially significant facilities, blocks of flats and cemeteries.
Thanks to the joint work of the response force, over 2,000 people were rescued, including 209 children, 41 bodies were recovered, and 121 people were hospitalised. More than 8,000 people were promptly evacuated from flooded areas, including 583 children and 291 mobility-impaired people. Currently, 1,935 people are staying at 21 temporary accommodation centres. They are being provided with comprehensive assistance, food and essentials. Others went to stay with relatives or friends.
Temporary accommodation centres available in the Kherson Region have enough capacity to accommodate about 3,500 more people, if need be.
The response centres have arranged for the delivery of the necessary machinery and equipment to the Kherson Region, from the state material reserve and the Emergencies Ministry reserve, to support rescue operations and meet the needs of the affected population.
In addition, the regional authorities have provided more than 240 tonnes of food and other necessities to support the population in the temporary accommodation centres. Together with other Russian regions and public organisations, they have provided 400 tonnes of bottled water.
We continue to provide assistance and promptly respond to every request from the Kherson Region.
Mr President,
An ad-hoc government commission is in charge of overall coordination of the interdepartmental force’s operations. An operational headquarters is operating in the disaster area under the supervision of the Emergencies Ministry.
As the water recedes, they are removing the debris and treating the area with special substances, removing garbage and disposing of animal and bird carcasses. Defence Ministry and Rospotrebnadzor units are conducting biological and chemical analyses of the environment. The Emergencies Ministry is providing methodological assistance to the Government of the Kherson Region on setting up evaluation commissions, drafting supporting documents and arranging payments to the affected population. Currently, these payments are being made from the regional budget. The disaster relief effort in the Kherson Region continues.
This concludes my report. Thank you for your attention.
Vladimir Putin: Thank you.
Do you need any assistance in addition to the measures that are currently being carried out by your Ministry, other agencies and the local authorities?
Alexander Kurenkov: Mr President, new problems come up literally every day. We ask the commission for the help we need and work with them.
Vladimir Putin: Ok.
Mr Khusnullin, the Government recently decided to allocate part of the budget of the industry-specific programmes as funding for the new constituent entities. How much money has been provided as of now?
(Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin
reported that 16 primary federal executive bodies are working on state programmes for the new constituent entities. As of today, 73 percent of the allocated amount has been transferred to the new regions, with 27 percent still being processed. However, the regions have not yet received the entire amount. According to the Deputy Prime Minister, the work continues, and very soon, the funds are expected to arrive in the new regions that are eagerly waiting for them. The President asked Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin to analyse this area of work with respect to industry-specific programmes for the new regions, issue instructions to develop respective reports by June 30 and forward these reports to him.)
Vladimir Putin: Mr Savelyev, recently, we have been paying much attention to digitalisation, including digitalisation on transport. There are many areas of work. Tell me about the progress.
Minister of Transport Vitaly Savelyev
: Mr President, colleagues.
Under the unprecedented pressure of sanctions against our country, the Ministry of Transport is taking accelerated measures to complete the transport industry’s shift to Russian digital solutions, including by employing industrial competence centres to replace foreign software. This work was organised by the Prime Minister and gave a boost to developing digital technology for transport. We have been paying particular attention to improving the competitiveness and appeal of passenger and cargo transportation services. We are pursuing digitalisation across all transport sectors. I will start with motor transport.
The high costs and time-consuming processing of transport documents encouraged the Ministry of Transport to introduce an electronic document management system. As per your instruction, we adopted two federal laws and 10 bylaws to streamline the electronic shipping document system.
The National Database of Electronic Shipping Documents was launched on September 1, 2022. This multi-industry project involved the Federal Taxation Service, the Ministry of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media and the Interior Ministry. At this point, the system issues six types of shipping documents in electronic form and will allow us to eliminate around 5 billion hard copies per year.
The Platon project. The Platon toll payment system [for lorries weighing more than 12 tonnes and using federal roads], implemented back in 2015, is in operation. Since its launch, more than 1.7 million vehicles weighing over 12 tonnes have been registered in the system, and more than 200 billion rubles have been transferred to the road fund. In 2022 alone, the funds were spent to repair 1,100 km of motorways across the country.
Now, the ERA-GLONASS project. In 2023, we integrated this national automated information system with the 112 system of the Emergencies Ministry in 85 regions and set up information exchange. More than 9 million vehicles are equipped with ERA-GLONASS devices. Last year alone, the number of emergency calls that were processed promptly enough for emergency services to arrive within the “golden hour” exceeded 12 million, or 40 percent more than in 2021. This factor directly affects road safety and accident survival rates.
To be continued.
Topics
Economy and finance
Regions
Transport
Persons
Khusnullin Marat
Kurenkov Alexander
Savelyev Vitaly
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 21, 2023, 16:40
Text versionEvents
Meeting with top graduates of higher military schools
Vladimir Putin met with top graduates of military universities and academies of the Defence Ministry, the Emergencies Ministry, the Federal Security Service (FSB), the Federal Guard Service (FSO), the Federal Service of National Guard Troops, the Interior Ministry, the Investigative Committee and the Federal Penitentiary Service in the Grand Kremlin Palace’s St George Hall.
June 21, 2023
15:00
The Kremlin, Moscow
9 of 17
During a meeting with graduates of higher military schools. Photo: Yegor Aleyev, TASS
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Comrades officers, friends,
Greetings and congratulations on your successful graduation.
We traditionally celebrate the top graduates of military academies, universities and special education institutions in St George Hall of the Moscow Kremlin, where everything reminds us of the heroism and combat glory of many generations of defenders of the Fatherland.
For as long as we can remember, our officers have chosen military professions of their own free will, being guided by their heart, serving our Motherland faithfully and loyally, with honour, love of their country and a feeling of responsibility for its future being their moral foundation.
It is these qualities, as well as the talents of our outstanding military leaders, the courage and tenacity of our soldiers and their commanders, the unity of the nation, that have always been the decisive force in the battles that determined the future of our Fatherland and the world as a whole.
We will celebrate an important date in our history soon, the 80th anniversary of the Battle of Kursk. During that battle on the Fire Arc, our men defeated and smashed elite enemy units, demonstrated unparalleled heroism and valour, and paved the way to long-awaited Victory.
Today, the descendants of the generation of the Great Patriotic War heroes are proving their loyalty to the Fatherland and the people in practice, fighting perseveringly for the Fatherland, for truth and justice.
During the special military operation, the soldiers and officers of the Russian Armed Forces are protecting our people, Russia’s territorial integrity and its right to sovereign development, as well as the historical choice the people in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions made in 2022 and the people in Crimea and Sevastopol in 2014.
The whole of Russia and our multi-ethnic people support our brave warriors and are proud of the sons and daughters of our Fatherland.
Friends,
Strengthening and developing the army, reliably ensuring national security was and still is our absolute priority.
We will continue to improve the Armed Forces in a comprehensive way with account taken for the new challenges, and, of course, the invaluable experience of the special military operation.
A crucial task in this regard is to develop the nuclear triad, the key guarantee of Russia’s military security and global stability. Nearly half of the units and formations of the Strategic Missile Forces have been equipped with the latest Yars systems, forces are being converted to advanced missile systems with the Avangard hypersonic glide vehicle. The first Sarmat launcher systems with a new heavy missile will enter combat duty shortly.
The arsenals of the air and naval components of the Strategic Nuclear Forces are being stocked in strict conformity with our plans. For example, the master submarine of the new Borei-A project has joined the Navy. In January 2023, the Admiral Gorshkov frigate [full name – Admiral of the Fleet of the Soviet Union Gorshkov], was put on combat duty. It is intended for open-ocean missions and is armed with cutting-edge Tsirkon hypersonic missiles.
Russian nuclear triad armaments make it possible to ensure strategic deterrence in an effective and guaranteed manner and maintain the global balance of forces. This is the result of a huge, years-long effort on the part of our industrial plants, design bureaus, technicians and engineers, military and civilian specialists.
Advanced armoured models, missile and air strike systems, air defence and EW systems are making a big contribution to the performance of combat missions as part of the special military operation. Their production and improvement will certainly be continued.
There is still a lot to do for the qualitative enhancement of the potential of all Armed Forces components. We will implement these plans in full based on our own scientific, technological, production and personnel potential as well as on the growing capabilities of the Russian defence industry and Russian hi-tech businesses.
We will continue to improve and produce counter-battery warfare systems, and we will go on providing forces with drones and autonomous strike systems that have proven themselves in combat. We will step up their production. It is necessary to supply this equipment to all levels of our forces, including units, platoons, companies and battalions.
I would like to emphasise that our army and navy must both continue to develop and also to fulfil combat tasks. This places special responsibility on the officer corps.
Very soon, you will assume command of miliary units and army management offices. You will have to take on huge responsibility. You will need to act with complete dedication, energy, integrity, persistence, courage, resolve and readiness to lead your comrades-in-arms.
It should be remembered that to gain respect in military units you must not only demonstrate your leadership qualities, but also lead by example and take care of your subordinates. The prestige of officers is unthinkable without that.
The integrity, cohesion, unity of will of our service personnel and their ability to win are based on the persistent and relentless work of commanders with every soldier and sailor. It is especially important under combat conditions. I am confident that all of you are aware of this and that your performance will reaffirm the wisdom of the great Suvorov, who said: The life and valour of an officer are his victories.
Comrades,
I would like to greet the young officers who have been appointed to the units of the FSB, the Interior Ministry, the Federal Service of National Guard Troops, the Emergencies Ministry, the Federal Guard Service, the Investigative Committee and the Federal Penitentiary Service.
It is your duty to protect the law, constitutional and public order, the rights and interests of our people, to combat terrorism, extremism, crime and corruption, and, of course, to help attain the goals of the special military operation.
Today, investigators, police and special services officers are working to expose and stop the crimes committed by neo-Nazis and death squad members, to restore law and order in the new regions of Russia.
I have no doubt that you, just as the personnel of the Armed Forces, will be working in your areas of competence to fulfil your tasks and that you will always remain worthy of the title of Russian officers.
Once again, congratulations on your graduation. I would like to wish health, every success in military service and well-being to all the 2023 graduates, all the best for your teachers and mentors, and, of course, best wishes to your near and dear ones.
Russia is proud of you. Russia pins its hopes on you.
During a meeting with graduates of higher military schools. Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu. Photo: Vadim Savitsky, TASS
Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu
: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
Today, we are honouring top graduates of our military educational institutions who willingly chose to serve the Fatherland as their calling in life.
Comrade officers,
You have completed your training at an extremely crucial time in the country’s history when the destiny of our Motherland is being decided, and when its geopolitical future is being determined. The collective West has unleashed a real war against Russia, and they are trying once again to break us. They have introduced endless sanctions, provoked unrest and conflicts in neighbouring states and provided tremendous military assistance to the Kiev regime.
You are beginning your military service in these tough conditions, and you will have to display top-level professionalism, maximum dedication, the ability to make unconventional decisions and to assume responsibility.
You have been entrusted with training and educating service personnel. Be ready to introduce the experience of the special military operation into combat training programmes. Be extremely attentive towards your subordinates and take care of them. Always remember that you are officers, and it is your duty to lead the way at all times.
Always uphold the honour and good reputation of your educational institutions. The country’s leadership can rest assured that our Armed Forces will do everything possible for ensuring the country’s military security and sovereignty.
I congratulate you on completing an important stage in your life, on graduating from our military universities and academies. I also congratulate the lieutenants on receiving their first officer rank.
I wish all of you good health and every success in your professional activities.
During a meeting with graduates of military educational institutions. Graduate of the Military Academy of the General Staff of the Russian Federation Armed Forces Major-General Alexander Tokarev. Photo: Yegor Aleyev, TASS
Alexander Tokarev: Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Federation Armed Forces,
Allow me, on behalf of all graduates of the military educational institutions, to express our gratitude to you for your personal words of encouragement for our military service to protect our Fatherland.
We are well aware of the complexity of the military and political situation and the current historical period. Like it was more than 80 years ago, Nazism has reared its head and is again trying to rule the world. We will not allow it. We will fight any adversary, we will show resilience, courage and heroism, loyalty to our people and readiness to defend our country’s national interests at the cost of our lives.
We have received solid knowledge of operational art and military strategy, a firm grasp of modern arms and military hardware at our military schools. We have been taught by teachers, many of whom have gained practical experience in the special military operation and present-day armed confrontation.
Allow me to express to you personally, Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief and Minister of Defence, our deep appreciation for the conditions created for teaching us the science of victory, and to our teachers and mentors for the invaluable knowledge and skills they have passed on to us.
Here, in the Kremlin’s St George Hall, the walls of which bear the names of our heroes, on behalf of all graduates, we assure you, Comrade Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, that every one of us is prepared and will selflessly serve our country, honourably perform his military duty and uphold the interests of the state. We will justify your trust and the trust of the people of Russia, we will ensure the reliable defence of the Fatherland, we will continue the glorious history of our Fatherland and its Armed Forces.
Vladimir Putin: One of the graduates has just spoken about the courage and heroism of our soldiers and officers. We know from today's events and our country's history that our army, our soldiers and officers, that Russian fighters are famous for great courage, bravery, valour and heroism.
I congratulate you on your graduation. Godspeed!
Topics
Armed Forces
Law enforcement agencies
Universities
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: June 21, 2023, 15:00
Text version