Events
Video address on the 30th anniversary of the Central Election Commission
September 24, 2023
00:00
Video address on the 30th anniversary of the Central Election Commission.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin: Colleagues,
This year we mark 30 years since the establishment of the Central Election Commission of Russia. I want to congratulate the current staff of the Central Election Commission, its leadership and, of course, all those, who are working or worked in the previous years in this highly important state body.
I would like to thank you, first and foremost, for the well-calibrated organisation of the election process. You are absolutely independent in your work, since there is no higher authority in this field. You make all decisions on your own, publicly and collectively, and guided only by the law and the principles of openness, transparency and utmost responsibility. Voters’ trust in election results depends on your professionalism, impartiality and transparency of your organisation. You do everything in your power to make sure that elections are held honestly and legitimately, in strict compliance with the law.
Over the past thirty years, the Russian electoral system has come a long way. It is constantly improving, using the latest technical achievements and the best world practices, harmoniously combining tradition and innovation.
In recent years digital solutions, which make participation in elections comfortable and accessible, have been actively implemented. A unique, second-to-none video surveillance system has been installed at polling stations.
Modern technological tools that allow for automatic processing of the votes are being used, and remote e-voting is available in many constituent entities of the Russian Federation.
Today, every citizen has everything necessary to freely express his or her will at the elections, do it at the official place of residence or wherever one might be, at a polling station or at home, on the day when it is most convenient, since there is an opportunity to vote within a period of several days.
Colleagues,
I would like to highlight your awareness-building efforts to help people understand the importance of elections and each citizen’s participation.
You also work together with Russian political parties, representatives of civil society and your colleagues abroad, and make a significant contribution to socio-political dialogue and stability.
I would like to separately thank you for your great help and support in creating electoral commissions of the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions. For acting bravely, decisively, despite all the challenges and numerous threats.
Colleagues,
In essence, we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of Russia’s entire electoral system this year. It is rightfully considered to be one of the best in the world, since it is based on election procedures which are clear and transparent for citizens, on strict compliance with the standards of election legislation, protection of national interests, Russia’s sovereignty and free expression of its citizens’ will.
It is the people who are the source of power in our country. They define its national development path. I would like to stress that the Central Election Commission deserves great credit for asserting the most important constitutional right of our citizens – to elect and be elected.
Once again, I would like to extend my congratulations on the anniversary date. I wish you good health, success and all the best.
Publication status
Published in sections: News, Transcripts
Publication date: September 24, 2023, 00:00
Text version